Suppose me to be sitting here in my library at Cambridge, at ten
minutes' walk from 'Memorial Hall,' and to be thinking truly of the
latter object. My mind may have before it only the name, or it may have
a clear image, or it may have a very dim image of the hall, but such an
intrinsic difference in the image makes no difference in its cognitive
function. Certain extrinsic phenomena, special experiences of
conjunction, are what impart to the image, be it what it may, its
knowing office.

For instance, if you ask me what hall I mean by my image, and I can
tell you nothing; or if I fail to point or lead you towards the Harvard
Delta; or if, being led by you, I am uncertain whether the Hall I see
be what I had in mind or not; you would rightly deny that I had 'meant'
that particular hall at all, even tho my mental image might to some
degree have resembled it. The resemblance would count in that case as
coincidental merely, for all sorts of things of a kind resemble one
another in this world without being held for that reason to take
cognizance of one another.

On the other hand, if I can lead you to the hall, and tell you of its
history and present uses; if in its presence I feel my idea, however
imperfect it may have been, to have led hither and to be now TERMINATED;
if the associates of the image and of the felt hall run parallel, so
that each term of the one context corresponds serially, as I walk, with
an answering term of the other; why then my soul was prophetic, and
my idea must be, and by common consent would be, called cognizant of
reality. That percept was what I MEANT, for into it my idea has passed
by conjunctive experiences of sameness and fulfilled intention. Nowhere
is there jar, but every later moment continues and corroborates an
earlier one.