Mr. Bertrand Russell's article entitled 'Transatlantic Truth,'
[Footnote: In the Albany Review for January, 1908.] has all the
clearness, dialectic subtlety, and wit which one expects from his pen,
but it entirely fails to hit the right point of view for apprehending
our position. When, for instance, we say that a true proposition is one
the consequences of believing which are good, he assumes us to mean that
any one who believes a proposition to be true must first have made
out clearly that its consequences be good, and that his belief must
primarily be in that fact,--an obvious absurdity, for that fact is the
deliverance of a new proposition, quite different from the first one and
is, moreover, a fact usually very hard to verify, it being 'far easier,'
as Mr. Russell justly says, 'to settle the plain question of fact: "Have
popes always been infallible?"' than to settle the question whether the
effects of thinking them infallible are on the whole good.'

We affirm nothing as silly as Mr. Russell supposes. Good consequences
are not proposed by us merely as a sure sign, mark, or criterion, by
which truth's presence is habitually ascertained, tho they may indeed
serve on occasion as such a sign; they are proposed rather as the
lurking motive inside of every truth-claim, whether the 'trower' be
conscious of such motive, or whether he obey it blindly. They are
proposed as the causa existendi of our beliefs, not as their logical cue
or premise, and still less as their objective deliverance or content.
They assign the only intelligible practical meaning to that difference
in our beliefs which our habit of calling them true or false comports.

No truth-claimer except the pragmatist himself need ever be aware of the
part played in his own mind by consequences, and he himself is aware
of it only abstractly and in general, and may at any moment be quite
oblivious of it with respect to his own beliefs.