A polemic author ought not merely to destroy his victim. He ought to try
a bit to make him feel his error--perhaps not enough to convert him,
but enough to give him a bad conscience and to weaken the energy of his
defence. These violent caricatures of men's beliefs arouse only contempt
for the incapacity of their authors to see the situations out of which
the problems grow. To treat the negative character of one abstracted
element as annulling all the positive features with which it coexists,
is no way to change any actual indeterminist's way of looking on the
matter, tho it may make the gallery applaud.

Turn now to some criticisms of the 'will to believe,' as another example
of the vicious way in which abstraction is currently employed. The right
to believe in things for the truth of which complete objective proof is
yet lacking is defended by those who apprehend certain human situations
in their concreteness. In those situations the mind has alternatives
before it so vast that the full evidence for either branch is missing,
and yet so significant that simply to wait for proof, and to doubt while
waiting, might often in practical respects be the same thing as weighing
down the negative side. Is life worth while at all? Is there any general
meaning in all this cosmic weather? Is anything being permanently bought
by all this suffering? Is there perhaps a transmundane experience in
Being, something corresponding to a 'fourth dimension,' which, if we had
access to it, might patch up some of this world's zerrissenheit and
make things look more rational than they at first appear? Is there a
superhuman consciousness of which our minds are parts, and from which
inspiration and help may come? Such are the questions in which the right
to take sides practically for yes or no is affirmed by some of us, while
others hold that this is methodologically inadmissible, and summon us to
die professing ignorance and proclaiming the duty of every one to refuse
to believe.