(3) "The generalized conclusion is that therefore _the parts of
experience hold together from next to next by relations that are
themselves parts of experience. The directly apprehended universe needs,
in short, no extraneous trans-empirical connective support, but
possesses in its own right a concatenated or continuous structure_."
When thus generalized, 'radical empiricism' is not only a theory of
knowledge comprising pragmatism as a special chapter, but a metaphysic
as well. It excludes "the hypothesis of trans-empirical reality" (Cf.
below, p. 195). It is the author's most rigorous statement of his theory
that reality is an "experience-continuum." (_Meaning of Truth_, p. 152;
_A Pluralistic Universe_, Lect. V, VII.) It is that positive and
constructive 'empiricism' of which Professor James said: "Let empiricism
once become associated with religion, as hitherto, through some strange
misunderstanding, it has been associated with irreligion, and I believe
that a new era of religion as well as of philosophy will be ready to
begin." (_Op. cit._, p. 314; cf. _ibid._, Lect. VIII, _passim_; and _The
Varieties of Religious Experience_, pp. 515-527.)

The editor desires to acknowledge his obligations to the periodicals
from which these essays have been reprinted, and to the many friends of
Professor James who have rendered valuable advice and assistance in the
preparation of the present volume.

RALPH BARTON PERRY.

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
  January 8, 1912.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The use of numerals and italics is introduced by the editor.

CONTENTS

I. DOES 'CONSCIOUSNESS' EXIST?                          1

II. A WORLD OF PURE EXPERIENCE                          39

III. THE THING AND ITS RELATIONS                         92

IV. HOW TWO MINDS CAN KNOW ONE THING                   123

V. THE PLACE OF AFFECTIONAL FACTS IN A WORLD
        OF PURE EXPERIENCE                                 137

VI. THE EXPERIENCE OF ACTIVITY                         155

VII. THE ESSENCE OF HUMANISM                            190

VIII. LA NOTION DE CONSCIENCE                            206

IX. IS RADICAL EMPIRICISM SOLIPSISTIC?                 234

X. MR. PITKIN'S REFUTATION OF 'RADICAL EMPIRICISM'    241

XI. HUMANISM AND TRUTH ONCE MORE                       244

XII. ABSOLUTISM AND EMPIRICISM                          266

INDEX                                              281

I

DOES 'CONSCIOUSNESS' EXIST?[2]

'Thoughts' and 'things' are names for two sorts of object, which common
sense will always find contrasted and will always practically oppose to
each other. Philosophy, reflecting on the contrast, has varied in the
past in her explanations of it, and may be expected to vary in the
future. At first, 'spirit and matter,' 'soul and body,' stood for a pair
of equipollent substances quite on a par in weight and interest. But one
day Kant undermined the soul and brought in the transcendental ego, and
ever since then the bipolar relation has been very much off its balance.
The transcendental ego seems nowadays in rationalist quarters to stand
for everything, in empiricist quarters for almost nothing. In the hands
of such writers as Schuppe, Rehmke, Natorp, Münsterberg--at any rate in
his earlier writings, Schubert-Soldern and others, the spiritual
principle attenuates itself to a thoroughly ghostly condition, being
only a name for the fact that the 'content' of experience _is known_. It
loses personal form and activity--these passing over to the content--and
becomes a bare _Bewusstheit_ or _Bewusstsein überhaupt_, of which in its
own right absolutely nothing can be said.