While she lived with her Father, she was look'd upon as one that would be a
good Fortune, wherefore it was thought her Father expected a good Match for
her; but she spoilt all, for without his Consent, she marries a young
Fellow, who belonged to the Sea, and was not worth a Groat; which provoked
her Father to such a Degree, that he turned her out of Doors, upon which
the young Fellow, who married her, finding himself disappointed in his
Expectation, shipped himself and Wife, for the Island of _Providence_,
expecting Employment there.

Here she became acquainted with _Rackam_ the Pyrate, who making Courtship
to her, soon found Means of withdrawing her Affections from her Husband, so
that she consented to elope from him, and go to Sea with _Rackam_ in Men's
Cloaths: She was as good as her Word, and after she had been at Sea some
Time, she proved with Child, and beginning to grow big, _Rackam_ landed her
on the Island of _Cuba_; and recommending her there to some Friends of his,
they took Care of her, till she was brought to Bed: When she was up and
well again, he sent for her to bear him Company.

The King's Proclamation being out, for pardoning of Pyrates, he took the
Benefit of it, and surrendered; afterwards being sent upon the privateering
Account, he returned to his old Trade, as has been already hinted in the
Story of _Mary Read_. In all these Expeditions, _Anne Bonny_ bore him
Company, and when any Business was to be done in their Way, no Body was
more forward or couragious than she, and particularly when they were taken;
she and _Mary Read_, with one more, were all the Persons that durst keep
the Deck, as has been before hinted.

Her Father was known to a great many Gentlemen, Planters of _Jamaica_, who
had dealt with him, and among whom he had a good Reputation; and some of
them, who had been in _Carolina_, remember'd to have seen her in his House;
wherefore they were inclined to shew her Favour, but the Action of leaving
her Husband was an ugly Circumstance against her. The Day that _Rackam_ was
executed, by special Favour, he was admitted to see her; but all the
Comfort she gave him, was, _that she was sorry to see him there, but if he
had fought like a Man, he need not have been hang'd like a Dog_.

She was continued in Prison, to the Time of her lying in, and afterwards
reprieved from Time to Time; but what is become of her since, we cannot
tell; only this we know, that she was not executed.

CHAP. VIII. OF Captain _Howel Davis_, And his CREW.

CAptain _Howel Davis_ was born at _Milford_, in _Monmouthshire_, and
was from a Boy brought up to the Sea. The last Voyage he made from
_England_, was in the _Cadogan_ Snow of _Bristol_, Captain _Skinner_
Commander, bound for the Coast of _Guiney_, of which Snow _Davis_ was chief
Mate: They were no sooner arrived at _Sierraleon_ on the aforesaid Coast,
but they were taken by the Pyrate _England_, who plunder'd them, and
_Skinner_ was barbarously murdered, as has been related before in the Story
of Captain _England_.