_That it was not of any great Signification who was dignify'd with Title;
for really and in Truth, all good Governments had_ (_like theirs_) _the
supream Power lodged with the Community, who might doubtless depute and
revoke as suited Interest or Humour. We are the Original of this Claim_
(says he) _and should a Captain be so sawcy as to exceed Prescription at
any time_, why down with Him! _it will be a Caution after he is dead to his
Successors, of what fatal Consequence any sort of assuming may be. However,
it is my Advice, that, while we are sober, we pitch upon a Man of Courage,
and skill'd in Navigation, one, who by his Council and Bravery seems best
able to defend this Commonwealth, and ward us from the Dangers and Tempests
of an instable Element, and the fatal Consequences of Anarchy; and such a
one I take_ Roberts _to be. A Fellow! I think, in all Respects, worthy your
Esteem and Favour_.

This Speech was loudly applauded by all but Lord _Sympson_, who had secret
Expectations himself, but on this Disappointment, grew sullen, and left
them, swearing, _he did not care who they chose Captain, so it was not a
Papist, for against them he had conceiv'd an irreconcileable Hatred, for
that his Father had been a Sufferer in_ Monmouth_'s Rebellion_.

_Roberts_ was accordingly elected, tho' he had not been above six Weeks
among them, the Choice was confirm'd both by the Lords and Commoners, and
he accepted of the Honour, saying, _That since he had dipp'd his Hands in
muddy Water, and must be a Pyrate, it was better being a Commander than a
common Man_.

As soon as the Government was settled, by promoting other Officers in the
room of those that were kill'd by the _Portugueze_, the Company resolv'd to
revenge Captain _Davis_'s Death, he being more than ordinarily respected by
the Crew for his Affability and good Nature, as well as his Conduct and
Bravery upon all Occasions; and pursuant to this Resolution, about 30 Men
were landed in order to make an Attack upon the Fort, which must be
ascended to by a steep Hill against the Mouth of the Cannon. These Men were
headed by one _Kennedy_, a bold daring Fellow, but very wicked and
profligate; they march'd directly up under the Fire of their Ship Guns, and
as soon as they were discover'd, the _Portugueze_ quitted their Post and
fled to the Town, and the Pyrates march'd in without Opposition, set Fire
to the Fort, and threw all the Guns off the Hill into the Sea, which after
they had done, they retreated quietly to their Ship.