_To a trading Nation, nothing can be so Destructive as Pyracy, or call for
more exemplary Punishment; besides, the national Reflection it infers: It
cuts off the Returns of Industry, and those plentiful Importations that
alone can make an Island flourishing; and it is your Aggravation, that ye
have been the Chiefs and Rulers in these licentious and lawless Practices._

_However, contrary to the Measures ye have dealt, ye have been heard with
Patience, and tho' little has, or possibly could, have been said in Excuse
or Extenuation of your Crimes, yet Charity makes us hope that a true and
sincere Repentance_ (_which we heartily recommend_) _may entitle ye to
Mercy and Forgiveness, after the Sentence of the Law has taken Place, which
now remains upon me to pronounce._

Y_OU_ Dav. Simpson, William Magnes, R. Hardy, Tho. Sutton,
Christopher Moody, _and_ Val. Ashplant.

_Ye, and each of you, are adjudged and sentenced, to be carried back to the
Place from whence ye came, from thence to the Place of Execution, without
the Gates of this Castle, and there within the Flood-Marks, to be hanged by
the Neck till ye are dead._

_After this, ye, and each of you shall be taken down, and your Bodies
hanged in Chains._

Warrant for Execution.

P_URSUANT to the Sentence given on_ Saturday, _by the Court of
Admiralty, at_ Cape-Corso-Castle, _against_ Dav. Simpson, Wm. Magnes, R.
Hardy, Tho. Sutton, Christopher Moody, _and_ Valentine Ashplant.

_You are hereby directed to carry the aforesaid Malefactors to the Place of
Execution, without the Gates of this Castle, to Morrow Morning at Nine of
the Clock, and there within the Flood-Marks, cause them to be hanged by the
Neck till they are dead, for which, this shall be your Warrant. Given under
my Hand, this_ 2_d Day of_ April 1722.

_To_ Joseph Gordyn, _Provost-Marshal._

Mungo Heardman.

_The Bodies remove in Chains, to the Gibbets already erected on the
adjacent Hillocks._

M. H.

_William Phillips._

IT appeared by the Evidence of Captain _Jo. Trahern_, and _George
Fenn_, Mate of the King _Solomon_, that this Prisoner was Boatswain of the
same Ship, when she was attacked and taken off Cape _Appollonia_, the 6th
of _January_ last, by the Pyrate's Boat.

When the Boat drew nigh, (they say,) it was judged from the Number of Men
in her, that they were Pyrates, and being hailed, answered, _Defiance_; at
which the Commander snatched a Musquet from one of his Men, and fired,
asking them at the same Time, whether they would stand by him, to defend
the Ship? But the Pyrates returning a Volley, and crying out, they would
give no Quarters if any Resistance was made; this Prisoner took upon him to
call out for Quarters, without the Master's Consent, and mislead the rest
to the laying down their Arms, and giving up the Ship, to half the Number
of Men, and in an open Boat. It was further evident he became, after this,
a Voluntier amongst them. First, because he was presently very forward and
brisk, in robbing the Ship _King Solomon_, of her Provisions and Stores.
Secondly, because he endeavoured to have his Captain ill used; and lastly,
because he had confessed to _Fenn_, that he had been obliged to sign their
Articles that Night, (a Pistol being laid on the Table, to signify he must
do it, or be shot,) when the whole appeared to be an Untruth from other
Evidence, who also asserted his being armed in the Action against the
_Swallow._