It may here perhaps be no unnecessary Digression, to explain upon what they
call Keys in the _West-Indies_: These are small sandy Islands, appearing a
little above the Surf of the Water, with only a few Bushes or Weeds upon
them, but abound (those most at any Distance from the Main) with Turtle,
amphibious Animals, that always chuse the quietest and most unfrequented
Place, for laying their Eggs, which are to a vast Number in the Seasons,
and would seldom be seen, but for this, (except by Pyrates:) Then Vessels
from _Jamaica_ and the other Governments make Voyages, called Turtling, for
supplying the People, a common and approved Food with them. I am apt to
think these _Keys_, especially those nigh Islands, to have been once
contiguous with them, and separated by Earthquakes (frequently there) or
Inundations, because some of them that have been within continual View, as
those nigh _Jamaica_, are observed within our Time, to be entirely wasted
away and lost, and others daily wasting. There are not only of the Use
above taken Notice of to Pyrates; but it is commonly believed were always
in buccaneering pyratical Times, the hiding Places for their Riches, and
often Times a Shelter for themselves, till their Friends on the Main, had
found Means to obtain Indemnity for their Crimes; for you must understand,
when Acts of Grace were more frequent, and the Laws less severe, these Men
continually found Favours and Incouragers at _Jamaica_, and perhaps they
are not all dead yet; I have been told many of them them still living have
been of the same Trade, and left it off only because they can live as well
honestly, and gain now at the hazard of others Necks.

Secondly, another Reason why these Seas are chose by Pyrates, is the great
Commerce thither by _French_, _Spaniards_, _Dutch_, and especially
_English_ Ships: They are sure in the Latitude of these trading Islands, to
meet with Prizes, Booties of Provision, Cloathing, and Naval-Stores, and
sometimes Money; there being great Sums remitted this Way to _England_;
(the Returns of the Affiento, and private Slave-Trade, to the _Spanish
West-Indies_:) And in short, by some one or other, all the Riches of
_Potosi_.

A third Reason, is the Inconveniency and Difficulty of being pursued by the
Men of War, the many small Inlets, Lagoons and Harbours, on these solitary
Islands and Keys, is a natural Security.

'Tis generally here that the Pyrates begin their Enterprizes, setting out
at first with a very small Force; and by infesting these Seas, and those of
the Continent of _North-America_, in a Year's Time, if they have good luck
on their Sides, they accumulate such Strength, as enables them to make
foreign Expeditions: The first, is usually to _Guiney_, taking the _Azores_
and _Cape de Verd_ Islands in their Way, and then to _Brazil_ and the
_East-Indies_, where if they meet with prosperous Voyages, they set down at
_Madagascar_, or the neighbouring Islands, and enjoy their ill gotten
Wealth, among their elder Brethren, with Impunity. But that I may not give
too much Encouragement to the Profession, I must inform my maritime
Readers, that the far greater Part of these Rovers are cut short in the
Pursuit, by a sudden Precipitation into the other World.