_Having obtained Leave to go on Board the Pyrates, and a Promise of Safety,
several of the Chief of them knew me, and some of them had sailed with me,
which I found of great Advantage; because, notwithstanding their Promise,
some of them would have cut me, and all that would not enter with them, to
Pieces, had it not been for the chief Captain_, Edward England, _and some
others I knew. They talked of burning one of their Ships, which we had so
entirely disabled, as to be no farther useful to them, and to fit the_
Cassandra _in her room; but in the End I managed my Tack so well, that they
made me a Present of the said shattered Ship, which was_ Dutch _built,
called the_ Fancy, _about three hundred Tons, and also a hundred and twenty
nine Bales of the Company's Cloth, tho' they would not give me a Rag of my
Cloathes_.

_They sailed the_ 3_d of_ September; _and with Jury-Masts, and such old
Sails as they left me, I made shift to do the like on the_ 8_th, together
with forty three of my Ship's Crew, including two Passengers and twelve
Soldiers, having but five Tons of Water aboard; and after a Passage of
forty eight Days, I arrived here_ October 26, _almost naked and starv'd,
having been reduced to a Pint of Water a Day, and almost in despair of ever
seeing Land, by Reason of the Calms we met with between the Coast of_
Arabia _and_ Malabar.--_We had in all thirteen Men killed and twenty four
wounded; and we were told, that we had destroyed about ninety or a hundred
of the Pyrates. When they left us, they were about three hundred Whites and
eighty Blacks in both Ships. I am persuaded, had our Consort the_ Greenwich
_done his Duty, we had destroyed both of them, and got two hundred thousand
Pounds for our Owners and selves; whereas to his deserting us, the Loss of
the_ Cassandra _may justly be imputed. I have delivered all the Bales that
were given me into the Company's Warehouse, for which the Governor and
Council have ordered me a Reward. Our Governor, Mr._ Boon, _who is extreme
kind and civil to me, has ordered me home with this Pacquet; but Captain_
Harvey, _who had a prior Promise, being come in with the Fleet, goes in my
room. The Governor hath promis'd me a Country Voyage, to help make me up my
Losses, and would have me stay to go home with him next Year_.

* * *

Captain _Mackra_ certainly run a great Hazard, in going aboard the Pyrate,
and began quickly to repent his Credulity; for though they had promised,
that no Injury should be done to his Person, he found their Words were not
to be trusted; and it may be supposed, that nothing but the desperate
Circumstances Captain _Mackra_ imagined himself to be in, could have
prevailed upon him to fling himself and Company into their Hands, perhaps
not knowing how firmly the Natives of that Island were attach'd to the
_English_ Nation; for about 20 Years ago, Captain _Cornwall_, Commadore of
an _English_ Squadron, assisted them against another Island called
_Mohilla_, for which they have ever since communicated all the grateful
Offices in their Power, insomuch that it became a Proverb, _That an_
Englishman, _and a_ Juanna _Man were all one_.