_Roche_ getting acquainted with one _Neal_, a Fisherman at _Cork_, whom he
found ready for any villainous Attempt, he imparted his Design to him, who
being pleas'd with the Project, brings one _Pierce Cullen_ and his Brother
into the Confederacy, together with one _Wise_, who at first was very
unwilling to come into their Measures, and, indeed, had the least Hand in
the Perpetration of what follows.

They pitch'd upon a Vessel in the Harbour, belonging to _Peter Tartoue_, a
_French_ Man, to execute their cruel Intentions upon, because it was a
small one, and had not a great Number of Hands on Board, and 'twas easy
afterwards to exchange it for one more fit for Pyracy; and therefore they
apply'd themselves to the Master of her, for a Passage to _Nantz_, whereto
the Ship was bound; and accordingly, the Beginning of _November_ 1721, they
went aboard; and when at Sea, _Philip Roche_ being an experienced Sailor,
the Master of the Vessel readily trusted him with the Care of her, at
times, while he and the Mate went to rest.

The 15th of _November_, at Night, was the Time designed for the Tragedy;
but _Francis Wise_ relented, and appear'd desirous to divert them from
their bloody Purposes. _Roche_ (sometimes called Captain) told him, _That
as_ Cullen _and he had sustained great Losses at Sea, unless every_
Irishman _present would assist in repairing their Losses, by murthering all
the_ French _Rogues, and running away with the Ship, he should suffer the
same Fate with the_ French _Men; but if all would assist, all should have a
Share in the Booty._ Upon this, they all resolved alike, and Captain
_Roche_ ordered three _Frenchmen_ and a Boy up to hand the Topsails, the
Master and Mate being then asleep in their Cabins, The two first that came
down, they beat out their Brains and threw them over-board: The other two
seeing what was done, ran up to the Topmast Head, but _Cullen_ followed
them, and taking the Boy by the Arm, tost him into the Sea; then driving
down the Man, those below knocked him on the Head, and threw him
over-board.

Those who were asleep, being awakened by the dismal Skrieks and Groans of
dying Men, ran upon Deck in Confusion, to enquire into the Cause of such
unusual Noises; but the same Cruelty was immediately acted towards them,
e'er they could be sensible of the Danger that threat'ned them.

They were now (as _Roche_ himself afterwards confess'd) _all over as wet
with the Blood that had been spilt, as if they had been dipp'd in Water, or
stood in a Shower of Rain, nor did they regard it any more. Roche_ said,
Captain _Tartoue_ used many Words for Mercy, and asked them, if he had not
used them with Civility and Kindness? If they were not of the same
Christian Religion, and owned the same blessed _Jesus_, and the like? But
they, not regarding what he said, took Cords and bound the poor Master and
his Mate Back to Back, and while that was doing, both of them begged with
the utmost Earnestness, and used the most solemn Intreaties, that they
would at least allow them a few Minutes to say their Prayers, and beg Mercy
of God for the various Sins and Offences of their Lives: But it did not
move them, (though all the rest were dead, and no Danger could be
apprehended from them two alone) for the bound Persons were hurry'd up and
thrown into the Sea.