The Death of the Captain in that Manner, provoked all the Crew, and they
resolved the Criminal should die by the most exquisite Tortures; but while
they were considering of the Punishment, the Gunner, transported with
Passion, discharged a Pistol, and shot him thro' the Body; but not killing
him outright, the Delinquent in very moving Words, desired a Week for
Repentance only; but another stepping up to him, told him, _that he should
repent and be damned to him_, and without more ado shot him dead.

I should have observed, that when the _Lucretia_ and _Katharine_ was
suffered to go away, the Pyrates detained their Mate, who was now the only
Man aboard, who understood Navigation, and him they desired to take upon
him the Command of the Sloop, in the Room of Captain _Evans_ deceased; but
he desired to be excused that Honour, and at length positively refused it;
so they agreed to break up the Company, and leave the Mate in Possession of
the Vessel: Accordingly they went ashore at the _Caimanes_, carrying with
them about nine thousand Pounds among thirty Persons; and it being fair
Weather, the Mate and a Boy brought the Vessel into _Port Royal_, in
_Jamaica._

CHAP. XV. OF Captain _John Phillips_, And his CREW.

J_OHN Phillips_ was bred a Carpenter, and sailing to _Newfoundland_
in a West-Country Ship, was taken by _Anstis_ in the _Good Fortune_
Brigantine, the next Day after he had left his Consort and Commadore,
Captain _Roberts. Phillips_ was soon reconciled to the Life of a Pyrate,
and being a brisk Fellow, was appointed Carpenter of the Vessel, for at
first his Ambition reach'd no higher; there he remain'd till they broke up
at _Tabago_, and was one of those who came home in a Sloop that we have
mentioned to be sunk in _Bristol_ Channel.

His Stay was not long in _England_, for whilst he was paying his first
Visits to his Friends in _Devonshire_, he heard of the Misfortune of some
of his Companions, that is, of their being taken and committed to _Bristol_
Goal; and there being good Reason for his apprehending Danger from a Wind
that blew from the same Quarter, he mov'd off immediately to _Topsham_, the
nearest Port, and there shipp'd himself with one Captain _Wadham_, for a
Voyage to _Newfoundland_, and home again; which, by the way, Mr. _Phillips_
never design'd to perform, or to see _England_ any more. When the Ship came
to _Peter_ Harbour in _Newfoundland_ aforesaid, he ran away from her, and
hired himself a Splitter in the Fishery, for the Season: But this was only
till he could have an Opportunity of prosecuting his intended Rogueries; in
order to which, he combined with several others, in the same Employ, to go
off with one of the Vessels that lay in the Harbour, upon the pyratical
Account; accordingly the Time was fix'd, _viz._ the 29th of _August_ 1723,
at Night; but whether Remorse or Fear prevented their coming together, I
know not, but of sixteen Men that were in the Combination, five only kept
the Appointment: Notwithstanding which, _Phillips_ was for pushing forward
with that small Number, assuring his Companions, that they should soon
encrease their Company; and they agreeing, a Vessel was seiz'd on, and out
of the Harbour they sailed.