_Lowther_ made the best Provision he could in the largest Sloop, which he
called the _Ranger_, having ten Guns and eight Swivels, and she sailing
best, the Company went all aboard of her, and left the other at Sea.
Provisions was now very short, which, with the late Loss, put them in a
confounded ill Humour, insomuch that they were every now and then going
together by the Ears, laying the Blame of their ill Conduct sometimes upon
one, then upon another.

The Beginning of _May_ 1722, they got to the _West-Indies_, and near the
Island of _Diseada_, took a Brigantine, one _Payne_ Master, that afforded
them what they stood in need of, which put them in better Temper, and
Business seemed to go on well again. After they had pretty well plundered
the Brigantine, they sent her to the Bottom. They went into the Island and
watered, and then stood to the Northward, intending to visit the Main-Coast
of _America._

In the Latitude of 38, they took a Brigantine called the _Rebecca_ of
_Boston_, Captain _Smith_, bound thither from St. _Christophers._ At the
taking of this Vessel, the Crews divided; for _Low_, whom _Lowther_ joined
at the _Grand Caimanes_, proving always a very unruly Member of the
Commonwealth, always aspiring, and never satisfy'd with the Proceedings of
the Commander; he thought it the safest Way to get rid of him, upon any
Terms; and according to the Vote of the Company, they parted the Bear Skin
between them: _Low_ with 44 Hands went aboard the Brigantine, and _Lowther_
with the same Number stay'd in the Sloop, and separated that very Night,
being the 28th of _May_ 1722.

_Lowther_ proceeding on his Way to the Main-Coast, took three or four
fishing Vessels off _New-York_, which was no great Booty to the Captors.
The 3d of _June_, they met with a small _New-England_ Ship, bound home from
_Barbadoes_, which stood an Attack a small Time, but finding it to no
Purpose, yielded herself a Prey to the Booters: The Pyrates took out of her
fourteen Hogsheads of Rum, six Barrels of Sugar, a large Box of _English_
Goods, several Casks of Loaf Sugar, a considerable Quantity of Pepper, six
Negroes, besides a Sum of Money and Plate, and then let her go on her
Voyage.