The Pyrate's Mizen-topmast fell, and some of her Rigging was torn, yet she
still out sailed the Man of War, and slid half Gun-Shot from them, while
they continued to fire without Intermission, and the other to return such
Guns as could be brought to bear, till by favour of the Winds, they were
advanced very nigh again; and after exchanging a few more Shot, about half
an Hour past one, his Main-Mast came down, having received a Shot a little
below the Parrel.

At Two she struck her Colours, and called for Quarters, proving to be a
Ship, formerly call'd the _Onslow_, but by them, the _Royal Fortune_; and
the Prisoners from her, assured them, that the smallest Ship of the two,
then remaining in the Road, belong'd to them, by the Name of the _Little
Ranger_, which they had deserted on this Occasion.

_Isaac Sun_, _Ralph Baldrick_, _Daniel Maclaughlin._

The Prisoners were asked by the Court, to the same Purpose the others had
been in the Morning; what Exception they had to make against what had been
sworn? And what they had to say in their Defence? And their Reply were much
the same with the other Prisoners; that they were forc'd Men, had not fired
a Gun in this Resistance against the _Swallow_, and that what little
Assistance they did give on this Occasion, was to the Sails and Rigging, to
comply with the arbitrary Commands of _Roberts_, who had threaten'd, and
they were perswaded would, have Shot them on Refusal.

The Court, to dispense equal Justice, mercifully resolved for these, as
they had done for the other Pyrate Crew; that further Evidence should be
heard against each Man singly, to the two Points, of being a Voluntier at
first, and to their particular Acts of Pyracy and Robbery since: That so
Men, who had been lately received amongst them, and as yet, had not been at
the taking, or plundering, of any Ship, might have the Opportunity, and
Benefit, of clearing their Innocence, and not fall promiscuously with the
Guilty.

_By Order of the Court_, John Atkins, _Register._

_Wm. Magnes, Tho. Oughterlauney, Wm. Main, Wm. Mackintosh, Val. Ashplant,
John Walden, Israel Hind, Marcus Johnson, Wm. Petty, Wm. Fernon, Abraham
Harper, Wm. Wood, Tho. How, John Stephenson, Ch. Bunce_, and _John Griffin_

Against these it was deposed by Captain _Joseph Trahern_, and _George
Fenn_, his Mate, that they were all of them, either at the attacking and
taking of the Ship King _Solomon_, or afterwards at the robbing and
plundering of her, and in this Manner; That on the 6th of _January_ last
their Ship riding at Anchor near Cape _Appollonia_ in _Africa_, discovered
a Boat rowing towards them, against Wind and Stream, from a Ship that lay
about three Miles to Leeward. They judged from the Number of Men in her, as
she nearer advanced, to be a Pyrate, and made some Preparation for
receiving her, believing, on a nigher View, they would think fit to
withdraw from an Attack that must be on their Side with great Disadvantage
in an open Boat, and against double the Number of Men; yet by the Rashness,
and the Pusillanimity of his own People (who laid down their Arms, and
immediately called for Quarter) the Ship was taken, and afterwards robbed
by them.

_President._ Can you charge your Memory with any Particulars in the Seizure
and Robbery?