Their Sins, we may presume were never so troublesome to their Memories, as
now, that inevitable Destruction seem'd to threaten them, without the least
Glympse of Comfort or Alleviation to their Misery; for, with what Face
could Wretches who had ravaged and made so many Necessitous, look up for
Relief; they had to that Moment lived in Defiance of the Power that now
alone they must trust for their Preservation, and indeed without the
miraculous Intervention of Providence, there appeared only this miserable
Choice, viz. a present Death by their own Hands, or a ling'ring one by
Famine.

They continued their Course, and came to an Allowance of one single
Mouthful of Water for 24 Hours; many of them drank their Urine, or Sea
Water, which, instead of allaying, gave them an inextinguishable Thirst,
that killed them: Others pined and wasted a little more Time in Fluxes and
Apyrexies, so that they dropped away daily. Those that sustain'd the Misery
best, were such as almost starved themselves, forbearing all sorts of Food,
unless a Mouthful or two of Bread the whole Day, so that those who survived
were as weak as it was possible for Men to be and alive.

But if the dismal Prospect they set out with, gave them Anxiety, Trouble,
or Pain, what must their Fears and Apprehensions be, when they had not one
Drop of Water left, or any other Liquor to moisten or animate. This was
their Case, when (by the working of Divine Providence, no doubt,) they were
brought into Soundings, and at Night anchored in seven Fathom Water: This
was an inexpressible Joy to them, and, as it were, fed the expiring Lamp of
Life with fresh Spirits; but this could not hold long. When the Morning
came, they saw Land from the Mast-Head, but it was at so great a Distance,
that it afforded but an indifferent Prospect to Men who had drank nothing
for the two last Days; however, they dispatch'd their Boat away, and late
the same Night it return'd, to their no small Comfort, with a load of
Water, informing them, that they had got off the Mouth of _Meriwinga_ River
on the Coast of _Surinam._

One would have thought so miraculous an Escape should have wrought some
Reformation, but alass, they had no sooner quenched their Thirst, but they
had forgot the Miracle, till Scarcity of Provisions awakened their Senses,
and bid them guard against starving; their allowance was very small, and
yet they would profanely say, _That Providence which had gave them Drink,
would, no doubt, bring them Meat also, if they would use but an honest
Endeavour._

In pursuance of these honest Endeavours, they were steering for the
Latitude of _Barbadoes_, with what little they had left, to look out for
more, or Starve; and, in their Way, met a Ship that answered their
Necessities, and after that a Brigantine; the former was called the
_Greyhound_, belonging to St. _Christophers_, and bound to _Philadelphia_,
the Mate of which signed the Pyrate's Articles, and was afterwards Captain
of the _Ranger_, Consort to the _Royal Fortune._

Out of the Ship and Brigantine, the Pyrates got a good supply of Provisions
and Liquor, so that they gave over the designed Cruise, and watered at
_Tobago_, and hearing of the two Sloops that had been fitted out and sent
after them at _Corvocoo_, they sailed to the Island of _Martinico_, to make
the Governor some sort of an Equivalent, for the Care and Expedition he had
shewn in that Affair.