Captain _Rogers_ sent out a Sloop to get Provisions, and gave the Command
to one _John Augur_, one of the Pyrates, who had accepted of the Act of
Grace; in their Voyage they met with two Sloops, and _John_ and his
Comrades not yet forgetting their former Business, made Use of their old
Freedom, and took out of them in Money and Goods, to the Value of about 500
_l._ after this they steered away for _Hispaniola_, not being satisfy'd
whether the Governor would admit them to carry on two Trades at once, and
so thought to have bidden Farewel to the _Bahama_ Islands; but as ill Luck
would have it, they met with a violent Turnado, wherein they lost their
Mast, and were drove back to one of the uninhabited _Bahama_'s, and lost
their Sloop; the Men got all ashore, and lived up and down in the Wood, for
a little Time, till Governor _Rogers_ happening to hear of their
Expedition, and where they had got to, sent out an armed Sloop to the
aforesaid Island; the Master of which, with good Words and fair Promises,
got them on Board, and brought them all to _Providence_, being a eleven
Persons, ten of which were try'd at a Court of Admiralty, convicted, and
hanged by the other's Evidence, in the Sight of all their former Companions
and fellow Thieves. The Criminals would fain have spirited up the pardoned
Pyrates, to rescue them out of the Hands of the Officers of Justice,
telling them from the Gallows, that, _They never thought to have seen the
Time, when ten such Men as they should be ty'd up and hanged like Dogs, and
four hundered of their sworn Friends and Companions quietly standing by to
behold the Spectacle._ One _Hamphrey Morrice_ urged the Matter further than
the rest, taxing them with Pusilanimity and Cowardice, as if it were a
Breach of Honour in them not to rise and save them from the ignominious
Death they were going to suffer. But 'twas all in vain, they were now told,
it was their Business to turn their Minds to another World, and sincerely
to repent of what Wickedness they had done in this. _Yes_, answered one of
them, _I do heartily repent; I repent I had not done more Mischief, and
that we did not cut the Throats of them that took us, and I am extremely
sorry that you an't all hang'd as well as we. So do I_, says another: _And
I_, says a third; and then they were all turned off, without making any
other dying Speeches, except one _Dennis Macarty_, who told the People,
_That some Friends of his had often said he should die in his Shoes, but
that he would make them Lyars_, and so kicked them off. And thus ended the
Lives, with their Adventures, of those miserable Wretches, who may serve as
sad Examples of the little Effect Mercy has upon Men once abandoned to an
evil Course of Life.

Least I be thought severe in my Animadversions upon the _Spanish_
Proceedings in the _West-Indies_, in respect to their Dealings with us; I
shall mention an Instance or two, wherein I'll be as concise as possible,
and then transcribe some original Letters from the Governor of _Jamaica_,
and an Officer of a Man of War, to the _Alcaldees_ of _Trinidado_, on the
Island of _Cuba_, with their Answers, translated into _English_, and then
proceed to the particular Histories of the Pyrates and their Crews, that
have made most Noise in the World in _our own Times_.