When _Davis_ arrived, Dinner not being ready, the Governor proposed that
they should pass their Time in making a Bowl of Punch till Dinner-Time: It
must be observed, that _Davis_'s Coxen waited upon them, who had an
Opportunity of going about all Parts of the House, to see what Strength
they had, he whispered _Davis_, there being no Person then in the Room, but
he, _(Davis)_ the Master, the Doctor, the Coxen and Governor; _Davis_ on a
sudden drew out a Pistol, clapt it to the Governor's Breast, telling him,
he must surrender the Fort and all the Riches in it, or he was a dead Man.
The Governor being no Ways prepared for such an Attack, promised to be very
Passive, and do all they desired, therefore they shut the Door, took down
all the Arms that hung in the Hall, and loaded them. _Davis_ fires his
Pistol thro' the Window, upon which his Men, without, executed their Part
of the Scheme, like Heroes, in an Instant; getting betwixt the Soldiers and
their Arms, all with their Pistols cock'd in their Hands, while one of them
carried the Arms out. When this was done, they locked the Soldiers into the
Guard-Room, and kept Guard without.

In the mean Time one of them struck the Union Flag on the Top of the
Castle, at which Signal those on Board sent on Shore a Reinforcement of
Hands, and they got Possession of the Fort without the least Hurry or
Confusion, or so much as a Man lost of either Side.

_Davis_ harangued the Soldiers, upon which a great many of them took on
with him, those who refused, he sent on Board the little Sloop, and because
he would not be at the Trouble of a Guard for them, he ordered all the
Sails and Cables out of her, which might hinder them from attempting to get
away.

This Day was spent in a kind of Rejoycing, the Castle firing her Guns to
salute the Ship, and the Ship the Castle; but the next Day they minded
their Business, that is, they fell to plundering, but they found Things
fall vastly short of their Expectation; for they discovered, that a great
deal of Money had been lately sent away; however, they met with the Value
of about two thousand Pounds Sterling in Bar Gold, and a great many other
rich Effects: Every Thing they liked, which was portable, they brought
aboard their Ship; some Things which they had no Use for, they were so
generous to make a Present of, to the Master and Crew of the little Sloop,
to whom they also returned his Vessel again, and then they fell to work in
dismounting the Guns, and demolishing the Fortifications.