The Manner of living among the _Portugueze_ here is, with the utmost
Frugality and Temperance, even to Penury and Starving; a familiar Instance
of Proof is, in the Voracity of their Dogs, who finding such clean
Cupboards at home, are wild in a manner with Hunger, and tare up the Graves
of the Dead for Food, as I have often seen: They themselves are lean with
Covetousness, and that Christian Vertue, which is often the Result of it,
Selfdenyal; and would train up their Cattle in the same way, could they
fetch as much Money, or had not they their Provision more immediately of
Providence. The best of them (excepting the Governor now and then) neither
pay nor receive any Visits of Escapade or Recreation; they meet and sit
down at each others Doors in the Street every Evening, and as few of them,
in so small an Island, can have their Plantations at any greater Distance,
than that they may see it every Day if they will, so the Subject of their
Talk is mostly how Affairs went there, with their Negroes, or their Ground,
and then part with one another innocently, but empty.

The Negroes have yet no hard Duty with them, they are rather Happy in
Slavery; for as their Food is chiefly Vegetables, that could no way else be
expended, there is no Murmurs bred on that account; and as their Business
is Domestick, either in the Services of the House, or in Gardening, Sowing,
or Planting, they have no more than what every Man would prefer for Health
and Pleasure; the hardest of their Work is the Carriage of their Pateroons,
or their Wives, to and from the Plantations; this they do in Hammocks
(call'd at _Whydah, Serpentines_) slung cross a Pole, with a Cloath over,
to screen the Person, so carried, from Sun and Weather, and the Slaves are
at each End; and yet even this, methinks, is better than the specious
Liberty a Man has for himself and his Heirs to work in a Coal Mine.

The Negroes are, most of them, thro' the Care of their Patroons,
Christians, at least nominal, but excepting to some few, they adhere still
to many silly Pagan Customs in their Mournings and Rejoycings, and in some
Measure, powerful Majority has introduced them with the Vulgar of the
_Mulatto_ and _Portugueze_ Race.

If a Person die in that Colour, the Relations and Friends of him meet at
the House, where the Corpse is laid out decently on the Ground and covered
(all except the Face) with a Sheet; they sit round it, crying and howling
dreadfully, not unlike what our Countrymen are said to do in _Ireland_:
This Mourning lasts for eight Days and Nights, but not equally intense, for
as the Friends, who compose the Chorus, go out and in, are weary, and
unequally affected, the Tone lessens daily, and the Intervals of Grief are
longer.