This River is navigable by two Channels, and has an Island about five
Leagues up, called _Popaguays_ or _Parrots_, where the _Dutch_ Cruisers,
for this Coast, generally Clean, and where sometimes Pyrates come in to
look for Prey, or to Refit, it being very convenient, by Reason of a soft
Mud about it, that admits a Ship's lying on Shore, with all her Guns and
Stores in, without Damage. Hither Captain _Ogle_ sent his Boat and a
Lieutenant, who spoke with a _Dutch_ Ship, above the Island, from whom he
had this Account, _viz._ That he had been four Days from Cape _Lopez_, and
had left no Ship there. However, they beat up for the Cape, without regard
to this Story, and on the 5th, at Dawning, was surprized with the Noise of
a Gun, which, as the Day brightened, they found was from Cape _Lopez_ Bay,
where they discovered three Ships at Anchor, the largest with the King's
Colours and Pendant flying, which was soon after concluded to be Mr.
_Roberts_ and his Consorts; but the _Swallow_ being to Windward, and
unexpectedly deep in the Bay, was obliged to Steer off, for avoiding a
Sand, called the _French Man_'s _Bank_, which the Pyrates observed for some
Time, and rashly interpreting it to be Fear in her, righted the _French
Ranger_, which was then on the Heel, and ordered her to chase out in all
hast, bending several of their Sails in the Pursuit. The Man of War finding
they had foolishly mistaken her Design, humoured the Deceit, and kept off
to Sea, as if she had been really afraid, and managed her Steerage so,
under the Direction of Lieutenant _Sun_, an experienced Officer, as to let
the _Ranger_ come up with her, when they thought they had got so far as not
to have their Guns heard by her Consort at the Cape. The Pyrates had such
an Opinion of their own Courage, that they could never dream any Body would
use a Stratagem to speak with them, and so was the more easily drawn into
the Snare.