The Pyrates now drew nigh enough to fire their Chase Guns; they hoisted the
black Flag that was worn in _Whydah_ Road, and got their Spritsail Yard
along-ships, with Intent to board; no one having ever asked, all this
while, what Country Ship they took the Chase to be; they would have her to
be a _Portuguese_, (Sugar being then a Commodity among them,) and were
swearing every Minute at the Wind or Sails to expedite so sweet a Chase;
but, alass, all turned sour in an Instant: It was with the utmost
Consternation they saw her suddenly bring to, and hawl up her lower Ports,
now within Pistol-shot, and struck their black Flag upon it directly. After
the first Surprize was over, they kept firing at a Distance, hoisted it
again, and vapoured with their Cutlashes on the Poop; tho' wisely
endeavouring at the same Time to get away. Being now at their Wits end,
boarding was proposed by the Heads of them, and so to make one desperate
Push; but the Motion not being well seconded, and their Main-Top-Mast
coming down by a Shot, after two Hours firing, it was declin'd; they grew
Sick, struck their Colours, and called out for Quarters; having had 10 Men
killed out right, and 20 wounded, without the loss or hurt of one of the
King's Men. She had 32 Guns, mann'd with 16 _French_ Men, 20 Negroes, and
77 _English._ The Colours were thrown over board, that they might not rise
in Judgment, nor be display'd in Tryumph over them.

While the _Swallow_ was sending their Boat to fetch the Prisoners, a Blast
and Smoak was seen to pour out of the great Cabin, and they thought they
were blowing up; but upon enquiry afterwards, found that half a dozen of
the most Desperate, when they saw all Hopes fled, had drawn themselves
round what Powder they had left in the Steerage, and fired a Pistol into
it, but it was too small a Quantity to effect any Thing more, than burning
them in a frightful Manner.

This Ship was commanded by one _Skyrme_, a _Welch_ Man, who, tho' he had
lost his Leg in the Action, would not suffer himself to be dressed, or
carried off the Deck; but, like _Widrington_, fought upon his Stump. The
rest appeared gay and brisk, most of them with white Shirts, Watches, and a
deal of Silk Vests, but the Gold-Dust belonging to them, was most of it
left in the _Little Ranger_ in the Bay, (this Company's proper Ship,) with
the _Royal Fortune._