After this Cruize, they went into one of the Islands and clean'd, and then
steered for the Bay of _Honduras_, where they arrived about the Middle of
_March_ 1722-3, and met a Sloop turning out of the said Bay. The Pyrates
had hoisted up _Spanish_ Colours, and continued them till they drew near
the Sloop, then they hall'd them down, hoisted their black Flag, fired a
Broadside, and boarded her. This Sloop was a _Spaniard_ of six Guns, and 70
Men, that came into the Bay that Morning, and meeting there with five
_English_ Sloops, and a Pink, made Prizes of them all, plundered them, and
brought the Masters of the Vessels away Prisoners, for the ransom of the
Logwood; their Names were _Tuthill, Norton, Newbury, Sprafort, Clark_ and
_Parrot._ The _Spaniards_ made no Resistance, so that the _English_ Pyrates
soon became their Masters and fell to rifling; but finding the
above-mentioned People in the Hold, and several _English_ Goods, they
consulted _Low_ the Captain thereupon, and without examining any further,
the Resolution pass'd to kill all the Company; and the Pyrates, without any
Ceremony, fell Pell-Mell to Execution with their Swords, Cutlashes,
Poll-Axes and Pistols, cutting, slashing and shooting the poor _Spaniards_
at a sad Rate. Some of the miserable Creatures jump'd down into the Hold,
but could not avoid the Massacre; they met Death every where, for if they
escaped it from one Hand, they were sure to perish by another; the only
Prospect they had of Life, was to fly from the Rage of those merciless Men,
and to trust to the more merciful Sea; and accordingly a great many leap'd
over-board, and swam for the Shore; but _Low_ perceiving it, ordered the
Canoa to be mann'd, and sent in pursuit of them, by which Means several of
the poor unhappy Men were knock'd in the Head in the Water, as they were
endeavouring to get to Land; however, about 12 of them did reach the Shore,
but in a miserable Condition, being very much wounded, and what became of
them afterwards was not known, except one, who while the Pyrates were at
their Sports and Pastimes ashore, finding himself very weak and fainting
with his Wounds, and not knowing where to go for Help and Relief, in this
Extremity, he came back to them, and begg'd for God sake, in the most
earnest Manner possible, that they would give him Quarters; upon which, one
of the Villains took hold of him, and said, _G-- d--n him, he would give
him good Quarters presently_, and made the poor _Spaniard_ kneel down on
his Knees, then taking his Fusil, put the Muzzle of it into his Mouth, and
fired down his Throat. 'Twas thought the rest did not long survive their
miserable Condition, and could only prolong their Lives, to add to the
Misery of them.

When the murdering Work was over, they rumaged the _Spanish_ Pyrate, and
brought all the Booty aboard their own Vessels: The six Masters
aforementioned, found in the Hold, they restored to their respective
Vessels: They forced away the Carpenter from the Pink, and then set Fire to
the _Spanish_ Sloop, and burnt her; which last Scene concluded the
Destruction of their Enemy, Ship and Crew.