Elated with this Booty, they had nothing now to think of but some safe
Retreat, where they might give themselves up to all the Pleasures that
Luxury and Wantonness could bestow, and for the present pitch'd upon a
Place called the _Devil_'s _Islands_, in the River of _Surinam_, on the
Coast of _Caiana_, where they arrived, and found the civilest Reception
imaginable, not only from the Governor and Factory, but their Wives, who
exchanged Wares and drove a considerable Trade with them.

They seiz'd in this River a Sloop, and by her gained Intelligence, that a
Brigantine had also sailed in Company with her, from _Rhode-Island_, laden
with Provisions for the Coast. A Welcome Cargo! They growing short in the
Sea Store, and as _Sancho_ says, _No Adventures to be made without
Belly-Timber_. One Evening as they were rumaging (their Mine of Treasure)
the _Portuguese_ Prize, this expected Vessel was descry'd at Mast-Head, and
_Roberts_, imagining no Body could do the Business so well as himself,
takes 40 Men in the Sloop, and goes in pursuit of her; but a fatal Accident
followed this rash, tho' inconsiderable Adventure, for _Roberts_ thinking
of nothing less than bringing in the Brigantine that Afternoon, never
troubled his Head about the Sloop's Provision, nor inquired what there was
on Board to subsist such a Number of Men; but out he sails after his
expected Prize, which he not only lost further Sight of, but after eight
Days contending with contrary Winds and Currents, found themselves thirty
Leagues to Leeward. The Current still opposing their Endeavours, and
perceiving no Hopes of beating up to their Ship, they came to an Anchor,
and inconsiderately sent away the Boat to give the rest of the Company
Notice of their Condition, and to order the Ship to them; but too soon,
even the next Day, their Wants made them sensible of their Infatuation, for
their Water was all expended, and they had taken no thought how they should
be supply'd, till either the Ship came, or the Boat returned, which was not
likely to be under five or six Days. Here like _Tantalus_, they almost
famished in Sight of the fresh Streams and Lakes; being drove to such
Extremity at last, that they were forc'd to tare up the Floor of the Cabin,
and patch up a sort of Tub or Tray with Rope Yarns, to paddle ashore, and
fetch off immediate Supplies of Water to preserve Life.

After some Days, the long-wish'd-for Boat came back, but with the most
unwellcome News in the World, for _Kennedy_, who was Lieutenant, and left
in Absence of _Roberts_, to Command the Privateer and Prize, was gone off
with both. This was Mortification with a Vengeance, and you may imagine,
they did not depart without some hard Speeches from those that were left,
and had suffered by their Treachery: And that there need be no further
mention of this _Kennedy_, I shall leave Captain _Roberts_, for a Page or
two, with the Remains of his Crew, to vent their Wrath in a few Oaths and
Execrations, and follow the other, whom we may reckon from that Time, as
steering his Course towards _Execution Dock_.