The last Advices we have received from our Plantations in _America_, dated
_June_ 9th, 1724, gives us the following Account, _viz._ That Captain
_Jones_ in the Ship _John_ and _Mary_, on the 5th of the said Month, met
with, near the Capes of _Virginia_, a _Spanish Guard del Coast_, commanded
by one _Don Benito_, said to be commissioned by the Governor of _Cuba_: She
was manned with 60 _Spaniards_, 18 _French_ Men and 18 _English_, and had
an _English_ Captain as well as _Spanish_, one _Richard Holland_, who
formerly belonged to the _Suffolk_ Man of War, which he deserted at
_Naples_, and took Shelter in a Convent. He served on Board the _Spanish_
Fleet under Admiral _Cammock_, in the War in the _Mediterranean_; and after
the Cessation of Arms with Spain, settled with several of his Countrymen
(_Irish_) in the _Spanish_ _West-Indies_. This _Guard del Coast_ made Prize
of Captain _Jones_'s Ship, and kept Possession of her from 5th to the 8th,
during which Time she took also the _Prudent Hannah_ of _Boston_, _Thomas
Mousell_ Master, and the _Dolphin_ of _Topsham_, _Theodore Bare_ Master,
both laden and bound for _Virginia_: The former they sent away together
with three Men and the Mate, under the Command of a _Spanish_ Officer and
Crew, the same Day she was taken; the latter they carried off with them,
putting the Master and all the Crew aboard Captain _Jones_'s Ship. They
plundered Captain _Jones_ of thirty six Men Slaves, some Gold-Dust, all his
Cloaths, four great Guns and small Arms, and about four hundred Gallons of
Rum, besides his Provisions and Stores, computed in all to 1500 _l._
Sterling.

CHAP. I. OF Captain _AVERY_, And his CREW.

NONE of these bold Adventurers were ever so much talked of, for a
while, as _Avery_; he made as great a Noise in the World as _Meriveis_ does
now, and was looked upon to be a Person of as great Consequence; he was
represented in _Europe_, as one that had raised himself to the Dignity of a
King, and was likely to be the Founder of a new Monarchy; having, as it was
said, taken immense Riches, and married the Great _Mogul_'s Daughter, who
was taken in an _Indian_ Ship, which fell into his Hands; and that he had
by her many Children, living in great Royalty and State; that he had built
Forts, erected Magazines, and was Master of a stout Squadron of Ships,
mann'd with able and desperate Fellows of all Nations; that he gave
Commissions out in his own Name to the Captains of his Ships, and to the
Commanders of his Forts, and was acknowledged by them as their Prince. A
Play was writ upon him, called, the _Successful Pyrate_; and, these
Accounts obtained such Belief, that several Schemes were offered to the
Council for fitting out a Squadron to take him; while others were for
offering him and his Companions an Act of Grace, and inviting them to
_England_, with all their Treasure, least his growing Greatness might
hinder the Trade of _Europe_ to the _East-Indies_.

Yet all these were no more than false Rumours, improved by the Credulity of
some, and the Humour of others who love to tell strange Things; for, while
it was said, he was aspiring at a Crown, he wanted a Shilling; and at the
same Time it was given out he was in Possession of such prodigious Wealth
in _Madagascar_, he was starving in _England_.