There was then no Person in Town to charge him with any Fact, upon which he
could be committed; nor could the Letter be proved to be of his
Hand-Writing, so that they had been obliged to let him go again, if he had
not helped his Accusers out at Pinch: The Magistrate was reduced to the
putting of this Question to him, _Did you write this Letter?_ He answered,
_He did_: And not only that, but confessed all the Contents of it; upon
which, he was committed to _Newgate_, but was afterwards admitted to a
hundred Pounds Bail, or thereabouts.

On the 5th of _July_ 1723, he was brought to his Tryal, at a Court of
Admiralty held at the _Old-Baily_, when Captain _Russel_, Governor
_Whitney_'s Son, and others, appeared as Evidences, by whom the Indictment
was plainly proved against him; which, if it had not been done, the Captain
was of such an heroick Spirit, that he would have deny'd nothing; for
instead of making a Defence, he only entertained the Court with a long
Narrative of his Expedition, from the first setting out, to his Return to
_England_, mentioning two Acts of Pyracy committed by him, which he was not
charged with, often challenging the Evidences to contradict him, if in any
Thing he related the least Syllable of an Untruth; and instead of denying
the Crimes set forth in the Indictment, he charged himself with various
Circumstances, which fixed the Facts more home upon him. Upon the whole,
the Captain was found Guilty, received Sentence of Death, and was executed
three Weeks after, at _Execution-Dock._

We return now to _Lowther_, whom we left cruising off _Hispaniola_, from
whence he plyed to Windward, and, near _Porto Rico_, chased two Sail, and
spoke with them; they proving to be a small _Bristol_ Ship, commanded by
Captain _Smith_, and a _Spanish_ Pyrate, who had made Prize of the said
Ship. _Lowther_ examined into the _Spaniard_'s Authority for taking an
_English_ Vessel, and threat'ned to put every Man of them to death, for so
doing; so that the _Spaniards_ fancied themselves to be in a very pittiful
Condition, till Matters cleared up, and they found their Masters as great
Rogues as themselves, from whom some Mercy might be expected, in regard to
the near Relation they stood with them, as to their Profession; in short,
_Lowther_ first rifled, and then burnt both the Ships, sending the
_Spaniards_ away in their Launch, and turning all the _English_ Sailors
into Pyrates.

After a few Days Cruise, _Lowther_ took a small Sloop belonging to St.
_Christophers_, which they mann'd and carried along with them to a small
Island, where they cleaned, and stay'd some Time to take their Diversions,
which consisted in unheard of Debaucheries, with drinking, swearing and
rioting, in which there seemed to be a kind of Emulation among them,
resembling rather Devils than Men, striving who should out do one another
in new invented Oaths and Execrations.