From hence they sailed to _Bonevista_, and looked into that Harbour, but
finding nothing, they steer'd for the Isle of _May_: When they arrived
here, they met with a great many Ships and Vessels in the Road, all which
they plundered, taking out of them whatever they wanted; and also
strengthen'd themselves with a great many fresh Hands, who most of them
enter'd voluntarily. One of the Ships they took to their own Use, mounted
her with twenty six Guns, and call'd her the _King James_. There being no
fresh Water hereabouts, they made towards St. _Jago_, belonging to the
_Portuguese_, in order to lay in a Store; _Davis_, with a few Hands, going
ashore to find the most commodious Place to water at, the Governor, with
some Attendants, came himself and examined who they were, and whence they
came? And not liking _Davis_'s Account of himself, the Governor was so
plain to tell them, he suspected them to be Pyrates. _Davis_ seemed
mightily affronted, standing much upon his Honour, replying to the
Governor, he scorn'd his Words; however, as soon as his Back was turn'd,
for fear of Accidents, he got on Board again as fast as he could. _Davis_
related what had happened, and his Men seemed to resent the Affront which
had been offered him. _Davis_, upon this, told them, he was confident he
could surprize the Fort in the Night; they agreed with him to attempt it,
and accordingly, when it grew late, they went ashore well arm'd; and the
Guard which was kept, was so negligent, that they got within the Fort
before any Alarm was given: When it was too late there was some little
Resistance made, and three Men killed on _Davis_'s Side. Those in the Fort,
in their Hurry, run into the Governor's House to save themselves, which
they barricadoed so strongly, that _Davis_'s Party could not enter it;
however, they threw in Granadoe-Shells, which not only ruin'd all the
Furniture, but kill'd several Men within.

When it was Day the whole Country was alarm'd, and came to attack the
Pyrates; wherefore it not being their Business to stand a Siege, they made
the best of their Way on Board their Ship again, after having dismounted
the Guns of the Fort. By this Enterprize they did a great Deal of Mischief
to the _Portuguese_, and but very little Good to themselves.

Having put to Sea they muster'd their Hands, and found themselves near
seventy strong; then it was proposed what Course they should steer, and
differing in their Opinions, they divided, and by a Majority it was carried
for _Gambia_ on the Coast of _Guiney_; of this Opinion was _Davis_, he
having been employ'd in that Trade, was acquainted with the Coast: He told
them, that there was a great deal of Money always kept in _Gambia_ Castle,
and that it would be worth their while to make an Attempt upon it. They
ask'd him how it was possible, since it was garrisoned? He desired they
would leave the Management of it to him, and he would undertake to make
them Masters of it. They began now to conceive so high an Opinion of his
Conduct, as well as Courage, that they thought nothing impossible to him,
therefore they agreed to obey him, without enquiring further into his
Design.