In answer to this, he first observed upon the Unhappiness of being
friendless in this Part of the World, which, elsewhere, by witnessing to
the Honesty of his former Life, would, he believed, in a great Measure,
have invalidated the wrong Evidence had been given of his being a Voluntier
with the Pyrates. He owns indeed, he made no Application to his Captain, to
intercede for a Discharge, but excuses it with saying, he had a dislike to
him, and therefore was sure that such Application would have avail'd him
nothing.

The Court observed the Pretences of this, and other of the Pyrates, of a
Pistol and their Articles being served up in a Dish together, or of their
being misused and forced from an honest Service, was often a Complotment of
the Parties, to render them less suspected of those they came from, and was
to answer the End of being put in a News-Paper or Affidavit: and the
Pyrates were so generous as not to refuse a Compliment to a Brother that
cost them nothing, and, at the same Time, secured them the best Hands; the
best I call them, because such a Dependance made them act more boldly.
_Guilty._

_Harry Glasby_, Master.

THere appearing several Persons in Court, who had been taken by
_Roberts_'s Ship, whereof the Prisoner was Master, their Evidence was
accepted as follows.

_Jo. Trahern_, Commander of the _King Solomon_, deposed, the Prisoner,
indeed, to act as Master of the Pyrate Ship (while he was under Restraint
there) but was observed like no Master, every one obeying at Discretion, of
which he had taken Notice, and complained to him, how hard a Condition it
was, to be a Chief among Brutes; and that he was weary of his Life, and
such other Expressions, (now out of his Memory,) as shew'd in him a great
Disinclination to that Course of Living.

_Jo. Wingfield_, a Prisoner with them at _Calabar_, says the same, as to
the Quality he acted in, but that he was Civil beyond any of them, and
verily believes, that when the Brigantine he served on Board of, as a
Factor for the _African_ Company, was voted to be burnt, this Man was the
Instrument of preventing it, expressing himself with a great deal of
Sorrow, for this and the like malicious Rogueries of the Company he was in;
that to him shewed, he had acted with Reluctancy, as one who could not
avoid what he did. He adds further, that when one _Hamilton_, a Surgeon,
was taken by them, and the Articles about to be imposed on him, he opposed,
and prevented it. And that _Hunter_, another Surgeon, among them, was
cleared at the Prisoner's Instance and Perswasion; from which last, this
Deponent had it assured to him, that _Glasby_ had once been under Sentence
of Death, on Board of them, with two more, for endeavouring an Escape in
the _West-Indies_, and that the other two were really shot for it.

_Elizabeth Trengrove_, who was taken a Passenger in the _African_ Company's
Ship _Onslow_, strengthen'd the Evidence of the last Witness; for having
heard a good Character of this _Glasby_, she enquired of the
Quarter-Master, who was then on Board a robbing, whether or no she could
see him? And he told her, _No_; they never ventured him from the Ship, for
he had once endeavoured his Escape, and they had ever since continued
jealous of him.