They now steered for the Leeward Islands, but in their Voyage met with such
a Hurricane of Wind, that the like had not been known; the Sea ran
Mountains high, and seemed to threaten them every Moment with Destruction;
it was no Time now to look out for Plunder, but to save themselves, if
possible, from perishing. All Hands were continually employed Night, and
Day, on Board the Brigantine, and all little enough, for the Waves went
over her, so that they were forced to keep the pump constantly going,
besides baling with Buckets; but finding themselves not able to keep her
free, and seeing the utmost Danger before their Eyes, they turn'd to the
Takle, and hoisted out their Provisions, and other heavy Goods, and threw
them over-board, with six of their Guns, so that by lightening the Vessel,
she might rise to the Top of the Sea with the Waves: They were also going
to cut away their Mast; but considering how dangerous it would be, to be
left in such a Condition, they resolved to delay it to the last, which was
Prudence in them to do; for a Ship without Masts or Sails, lies like a Log
upon the Water, and if attack'd, must fight with Disadvantage, the working
of her being the most artful Part of the Engagement, because she may
sometimes bring all her great Guns on one Side, to bear upon her Enemy,
when the disabled Ship can do little or nothing.

But to proceed; by their throwing over-board the heavy Goods, the Vessel
made considerable less Water, and they could keep it under with the Pump
only, which gave them Hopes and new Life; so that instead of cutting all
away, they took necessary Measures to secure the Mast, by making
Preventor-Shrowds, _&c._ and then wore and lay too upon the other Tack,
till the Storm was over. The Scooner made somewhat better Weather of it, of
the two, but was pretty roughly handled notwithstanding, having split her
Main-sail, sprung her Boltsprit, and cut her Anchors from her Bows. The
Brigantine by running away to Leeward, when she wore upon the Larboard
Tack, had lost Sight of the Scooner; but not knowing whether she might be
safe or not, as soon as the Wind abated, she set her Main-Sail and
Top-Sail, and made short Trips to Windward; and the next Day had the good
Fortune to come in Sight of their Consort, who, upon a Signal, which the
other knew, bore down to her, and the Crew were overjoy'd to meet again,
after such ill Treatment from the Winds and Seas.

After the Storm, _Low_ got safe to a small Island, one of the Weathermost
of the _Caribbees_, and there fitted their Vessels, as well as the Place
could afford; they got Provisions of the Natives, in exchange for Goods of
their own; and as soon as the Brigantine was ready, 'twas judg'd necessary
to take a short Cruize, and leave the Scooner in the Harbour till her
Return. The Brigantine sail'd out accordingly, and had not been out many
Days before they met a Ship at Sea, that had lost all her Masts; on Board
of whom they went, and took from her in Money and Goods, to the Value of
1000 _l._ and so left her in the Condition they found her: This Ship was
bound home from _Barbadoes_, but losing her Masts in the late Storm, was
making for _Antegoa_, to refit, where she afterwards arriv'd.