_Kennedy_ was now chosen Captain of the revolted Crew, but could not bring
his Company to any determined Resolution; some of them were for pursuing
the old Game, but the greater Part of them seem'd to have Inclinations to
turn from those evil Courses, and get home privately, (for there was no Act
of Pardon in Force,) therefore they agreed to break up, and every Man to
shift for himself, as he should see Occasion. The first Thing they did, was
to part with the great _Portugueze_ Prize, and having the Master of the
Sloop (whose Name I think was _Cane_) aboard, who they said was a very
honest Fellow, (for he had humoured them upon every Occasion,) told them of
the Brigantine that _Roberts_ went after; and when the Pyrates first took
him, he complemented them at an odd Rate, telling them they were welcome to
his Sloop and Cargo, and wish'd that the Vessel had been larger, and the
Loading richer for their Sakes: To this good natured Man they gave the
_Portugueze_ Ship, (which was then above half loaded,) three or four
Negroes, and all his own Men, who returned Thanks to his kind Benefactors,
and departed.

Captain _Kennedy_ in the _Rover_, sailed to _Barbadoes_, near which Island,
they took a very peaceable Ship belonging to _Virginia_; the Commander was
a Quaker, whose Name was _Knot_; he had neither Pistol, Sword, nor Cutlash
on Board; and Mr. _Knot_ appearing so very passive to all they said to him,
some of them thought this a good Opportunity to go off; and accordingly
eight of the Pyrates went aboard, and he carried them safe to _Virginia_;
They made the Quaker a Present of 10 Chests of Sugar, 10 Rolls of _Brasil_
Tobacco, 30 Moidors, and some Gold-Dust, in all to the value of about 250
_l._ They also made Presents to the Sailors, some more, some less, and
lived a jovial Life all the while they were upon their Voyage, Captain
_Knot_ giving them their Way; nor indeed could he help himself, unless he
had taken an Opportunity to surprize them, when they were either drunk or
asleep; for awake they wore Arms aboard the Ship, and put him in a
continual Terror; it not being his Principle (or the Sect's) to fight,
unless with Art and Collusion; he managed these Weapons well till he
arrived at the Capes, and afterwards four of the Pyrates went off in a
Boat, which they had taken with them, for the more easily making their
Escapes, and made up the Bay towards _Maryland_, but were forced back by a
Storm into an obscure Place of the Country, where meeting with good
Entertainment among the Planters, they continued several Days without being
discovered to be Pyrates. In the mean Time Captain _Knot_ leaving four
others on Board his Ship, (who intended to go to _North-Carolina_,) made
what hast he could to discover to Mr. _Spotswood_ the Governor, what sort
of Passengers he had been forced to bring with him, who by good Fortune got
them seized; and Search being made after the others, who were revelling
about the Country, they were also taken, and all try'd, convicted and
hang'd, two _Portuguese_ Jews who were taken on the Coast of _Brasil_, and
whom they brought with them to _Virginia_, being the principal Evidences.
The latter had found Means to lodge Part of their Wealth with the Planters,
who never brought it to Account: But Captain _Knot_ surrendered up every
Thing that belonged to them, that were taken aboard, even what they
presented to him, in lieu of such Things as they had plundered him of in
their Passage, and obliged his Men to do the like.