The _Carolina_ Men gave the Pyrate a Broadside, and then Boarded him, one
Sloop getting upon his Quarter, and the other on his Bow; _Worley_ and the
Crew, drew up upon the Deck, and fought very obstinately, Hand to Hand, so
that in a few Minutes, abundance of Men lay weltering in their Gore; the
Pyrates proved as good as their Words, not a Man of them cry'd out for
Quarter, nor would accept of such, when offered, but were all killed except
the Captain and another Man, and those very much wounded, whom they
reserved for the Gallows. They were brought ashore in Irons, and the next
Day, which was the 17th of _February_ 1718-19, they were both hanged up,
for fear they should dye, and evade the Punishment as was thought due to
their Crimes.

CHAP. XII. OF Capt. _George Lowther_, And his CREW.

G_Eorge Lowther_ sailed out of the River of _Thames_, in one of the
Royal _African_ Company's Ships, call'd the _Gambia Castle_, of 16 Guns and
30 Men, _Charles Russel_ Commander; of which Ship, the said _Lowther_ was
second Mate. Aboard of the same Ship, was a certain Number of Soldiers,
commanded by one _John Massey_, who were to be carried to one of the
Company's Settlements, on the River of _Gambia_, to Garrison a Fort, which
was sometime ago taken and destroy'd by Captain _Davis_ the Pyrate.

In _May_ 1721, the _Gambia Castle_ came safe to her Port in _Africa_, and
landed Captain _Massey_ and his Men on _James_'s Island, where he was to
Command under the Governor, Colonel _Whitney_, who arrived there at the
same Time, in another Ship: And here, by a fatal Misunderstanding, between
the military Folks and the Trading People, the Fort and Garrison not only
came to be lost again to the Company, but a fine Galley well provided, and
worth 10000 _l._ turned against her Masters.

The Names of Governor and Captain sounded great, but when the Gentlemen
found that the Power that generally goes along with those Titles, was
oversway'd and born down by the Merchants and Factors, (mechanick Fellows
as they thought them) they grew very impatient and disatisfy'd, especially
_Massey_, who was very loud in his Complaints against them, particularly at
the small Allowance of Provisions to him and his Men; for the Garrison and
Governor too, were victualled by the Merchants, which was no small
Grievance and Mortification to them. And as the want of eating was the only
Thing that made the great _Sancho_ quit his Government, so did it here rend
and tare their's to Pieces: For _Massey_ told them, _that he did not come
there to be a_ Guiney _Slave, and that he had promised his Men good
Treatment, and Provisions fitting for Soldiers: That as he had the Care of
so many of his Majesty's Subjects, if they would not provide for them in a
handsome Manner, he should take suitable Measures for the Preservation of
so many of his Countrymen and Companions._