The Prisoners made little or no Defence, every one pretending only that
they were taken off a Maroon Shore, and were shipped with Major _Bonnet_ to
go to St. _Thomas_'s; but being out at Sea, and wanting Provisions, they
were obliged to do what they did by others; and so did Major _Bonnet_
himself, pretend that 'twas Force, not Inclination, that occasioned what
had happened. However, the Facts being plainly proved, and that they had
all shared ten or eleven Pounds a Man, excepting the three last, and
_Thomas Nichols_, they were all but they, found Guilty. The Judge made a
very grave Speech to them, setting forth _the Enormity of their Crimes, the
Condition they were now in, and the Nature and Necessity of an unfeigned
Repentance_; and then recommended them to the Ministers of the Province,
for more ample Directions, to fit them for Eternity, _for_ (concluded he)
_the Priest's Lips shall keep Knowledge, and you shall seek the Law at
their Mouths; for they are the Messengers of the Lord_. Mat. II. 57. _And
the Ambassadors of Christ, and unto them is committed the Word_ [or
Doctrine] _of Reconciliation_, 2 Cor. V. 19. 20. And then pronounced
Sentence of Death upon them.

On _Saturday November_ the 8th, 1711. _Robert Tucker, Edward Robinson, Neal
Paterson, William Scot, Job Bayley, John-William Smith, John Thomas,
William Morrison, Samuel Booth, William Hewit, William Eddy_, alias _Neddy,
Alexander Annand, George Ross, George Dunkin, Matthew King, Daniel Perry,
Henry Virgin, James Robbins, James Mullet_, alias _Millet, Thomas Price,
John Lopez_, and _Zachariah Long_, were executed at the _White-Point_ near
_Charles-Town_, pursuant to their Sentence.

As for the Captain, his Escape protracted his Fate, and spun out his Life a
few Days longer, for he was try'd the 10th, and being found Guilty,
received Sentence in like Manner as the former; before which Judge _Trot_,
made a most excellent Speech to him, rather somewhat too long to be taken
into our History, yet I could not tell how to pass by so good and useful a
Piece of Instruction, not knowing whose Hands this Book may happen to fall
into.

_The Lord Chief Justices's_ SPEECH, _upon his pronouncing Sentence on
Major_ STEDE BONNET.

MAjor _Stede Bonnet_, you stand here convicted upon two Indictments
of Pyracy; one by the Verdict of the Jury, and the other by your own
Confession.

Altho' you were indicted but for _two_ Facts, yet you know that at your
Tryal it was fully proved even by an unwilling Witness, that you
_pyratically_ took and rifled no less than _thirteen_ Vessels, since you
sail'd from _North-Carolina_.

So that you might have been indicted, and convicted of _eleven_ more Acts
of _Pyracy_, since you took the Benefit of the King's _Act of Grace_, and
pretended to leave that wicked Course of Life.

Not to mention the many _Acts_ of _Pyracy_ you committed before; for which
if your Pardon from _Man_ was never so authentick, yet you must expect to
answer for them before God.

You know that the Crimes you have committed are _evil_ in themselves, and
contrary to the _Light_ and _Law_ of _Nature_, as well as the _Law_ of God,
by which you are commanded that _you shall not steal_, Exod. 20. 15. And
the Apostle St. _Paul_ expresly affirms, That _Thieves shall not inherit
the Kingdom of God_, 1 Cor. 6. 10.