Round the Shores of this Island, and at this Season, _(July, August_ and
_September_,) there is a great Resort of Whale-Fish, tame, and sporting
very nigh the Ships as they sail in, always in Pairs, the Female much the
smaller, and often seen to turn on their Backs for Dalliance, the Prologue
to engendring: It has an Enemy, called the Thresher, a large Fish too, that
has its Haunts here at this Season, and encounters the Whale, raising
himself out of the Water a considerable Heighth, and falling again with
great Weight and Force; it is commonly said also, that there is a Sword
Fish in these Battles, who pricks the Whale up to the Surface again, but
without this, I believe, he would suffocate when put to quick Motions,
unless frequently approaching the Air, to ventilate and remove the
impediments to a swifter Circulation: Nor do I think he is battled for
Prey, but to remove him from what is perhaps the Food of both. The Number
of Whales here has put me sometimes on thinking an advantageous Fishery
might be made of it, but I presume they (no more than those of _Brasil)_
are the Sort which yield the profitable Part, called Whale-Bone: All
therefore that the Islanders do, is now and then to go out with two or
three Canoes, and set on one for Diversion.

The Rocks and outer Lines of the Island, are the Haunts of variety of
Sea-Birds, especially Boobies and Noddies; the former are of the Bigness of
a Gull, and a dark Colour, named so from their Simplicity, because they
often sit still and let the Sailors take them up in their Hands; but I
fancy this succeeds more frequently from their Weariness, and the Largeness
of their Wings, which, when they once have rested, cannot have the Scope
necessary to raise and float them on the Air again. The Noddies are smaller
and flat footed also.

What I would remark more of them, is, the admirable Instinct in these
Birds, for the proper Seasons, and the proper Places for Support. In the
aforemention'd Months, when the large Fish were here, numerous Flocks of
Fowl attend for the Spawn and Superfluity of their Nourishment; and in
_January_ few of either; for the same Reason, there are scarce any Sea Fowl
seen on the _African_ Coast; Rocks and Islands being generally their best
Security and Subsistance.