They staid not long here, tho' they had immediate Occasion for cleaning
their Sloop, but did not think this a proper Place, and herein they judg'd
right; for the touching at this Island, had like to have been their
Destruction, because they having resolved to go away to the _Granada_
Islands, for the aforesaid Purpose, by some Accident it came to be known to
the _French_ Colony, who sending Word to the Governor of _Martinico_, he
equipped and manned two Sloops to go in Quest of them. The Pyrates sailed
directly for the _Granadilloes_, and hall'd into a Lagoon, at _Corvocoo_,
where they cleaned with unusual Dispatch, staying but a little above a
Week, by which Expedition they missed of the _Martinico_ Sloops, only a few
Hours; _Roberts_ sailing over Night, that the _French_ arrived the next
Morning. This was a fortunate Escape, especially considering, that it was
not from any Fears of their being discovered, that they made so much hast
from the Island; but, as they had the Impudence themselves to own, for the
want of Wine and Women.

Thus narrowly escaped, they sailed for _Newfoundland_, and arrived upon the
Banks the latter end of _June_, 1720. They entered the Harbour of
_Trepassi_, with their black Colours flying, Drums beating, and Trumpets
sounding. There were two and twenty Vessels in the Harbour, which the Men
all quitted upon the Sight of the Pyrate, and fled ashore. It is impossible
particularly to recount the Destruction and Havock they made here, burning
and sinking all the shipping, except a _Bristol_ Galley, and destroying the
Fisheries, and Stages of the poor Planters, without Remorse or Compunction;
for nothing is so deplorable as Power in mean and ignorant Hands, it makes
Men wanton and giddy, unconcerned at the Misfortunes they are imposing on
their Fellow Creatures, and keeps them smiling at the Mischiefs, that bring
themselves no Advantage. _They are like mad Men, that cast Fire-Brands,
Arrows, and Death, and say, are not we in Sport?_