That Afternoon they chac'd another Vessel, and at Night came up with her,
the Master of which was a Saint of _New-England_, nam'd _Dependance
Ellery_, who taking _Phillips_ for a Pyrate, he told him was the Reason
that he gave him the Trouble of chacing so long; which being resented by
these Men of Honour, they made poor _Dependance_ dance about the Deck till
he was weary.

Within few Days several other Vessels had the same Misfortune, the Masters
Names were as follow, _Joshua Elwell, Samuel Elwell_, Mr. _Combs_, Mr.
_Lansly, James Babston, Edward Freeman_, Mr. _Start, Obediah Beal, Erick
Erickson_ and _Benjamin Wheeler._

The 14th of _April_ they took a Sloop belonging to Cape _Ann, Andrew
Harradine_ Master; they look'd upon this Vessel more fit for their Purpose,
and so came aboard, keeping only the Master of her Prisoner, and sending
_Harradine_'s Crew away in _Salter_'s Vessel, which they, till this Time,
detain'd. To this _Harradine, Cheeseman_ the Carpenter, broke his Mind, and
brought him into the Confederacy to destroy the Crew, which was put in
Execution four Days afterwards.

_Harradine_ and the rest were for doing the Business in the Night, as
believing they might be more opportunely surpriz'd; for _Nut_, the Master,
being a Fellow of great Strength, and no less Courage, it was thought
dangerous to attack him without Fire-Arms; however, _Cheeseman_ was
resolute to have it perform'd by Day-light, as the least liable to
Confusion; and as to the Master, he offer'd to lay Hands on him first: Upon
this 'twas concluded on, 12 at Noon was the appointed Time; in order for
the Business _Cheeseman_ leaves his working Tools on the Deck, as though he
had been going to use them, and walked aft; but perceiving some Signs of
Timidity in _Harradine_, he comes back, fetches his Brandy Bottle and gives
him and the rest a Dram, then drank to _Burril_, the Boatswain, and the
Master, _To their next merry Meeting_, and up he puts the Bottle; then he
takes a Turn with _Nut_, asking what he thought of the Weather, and such
like. In the mean while _Filemore_ takes up the Axe, and turns it round
upon the Point, as if at Play, then both he and _Harradine_ wink at him,
thereby letting him know they were ready; upon which Signal he seizes _Nut_
by the Collar, with one Hand between his Legs, and toss'd him over the Side
of the Vessel, but, he holding by _Cheeseman_'s Sleeve, said, _Lord have
Mercy upon me! what are you going to do, Carpenter?_ He told him it was an
unnecessary Question, _For_, says he, _Master, you are a dead Man_, so
strikes him over the Arm, _Nut_ looses his Hold, tumbles into the Sea, and
never spoke more.