On the 16th of _December_ the two Sloops came into the Bay, where they
found only one at an Anchor, call'd the _Pearl_, of _Jamaica_, Captain
_Charles Rowling_ Master, who got under Sail at the Sight of them; but the
Pyrate Sloops coming near _Rowling_, and shewing no Colours, he gave them a
Gun or two; whereupon they hoisted the black Flag, and fired three Guns
each, at the _Pearl_; she struck, and the Pyrates took Possession, and
carried her away to a small Island called _Barnacko_, and there they
cleaned, meeting in the Way with a Sloop from _Jamaica_, Captain _Wallden_
Commander, going down to the Bay, which they also made Prize of.

In _February, Vane_ sailed from _Barnacko_, in order for a Cruize; but some
Days after he was out, a violent Turnado overtook him, which separated him
from his Consort, and after two Days Distress, threw his Sloop upon a small
uninhabited Island, near the Bay of _Honduras_, where she was staved to
Pieces, and most of her Men drowned: _Vane_ himself was saved, but reduced
to great Streights, for want of Necessaries, having no Opportunity to get
any Thing from the Wreck. He lived here some Weeks, and was subsisted
chiefly by Fishermen, who frequented the Island with small Craft, from the
Main, to catch Turtles, _&c_.

While _Vane_ was upon this Island, a Ship put in from _Jamaica_ for Water,
the Captain of which, one _Holford_, an old Buccaneer, happened to be
_Vane_'s Acquaintance; he thought this a good Opportunity to get off, and
accordingly applied to his old Friend; but he absolutely refused him,
saying to him, Charles, _I shan't trust you aboard my Ship, unless I carry
you a Prisoner; for I shall have you caballing with my Men, knock me on the
Head, and run away with my Ship a pyrating. Vane_ made all the
Protestations of Honour in the World to him; but, it seems, Captain
_Holford_ was too intimately acquainted with him, to repose any Confidence
at all in his Words or Oaths. He told him, _He might easily find a Way to
get off, if he had a Mind to it: I am now going down the Bay_, says he,
_and shall return hither, in about a Month; and if I find you upon the
Island when I come back, I'll carry you to_ Jamaica, _and hang you. Which
Way can I get away_? Answers _Vane. Are there not Fishermen's Dories upon
the Beach? Can't you take one of them_? Replies _Holford. What_, says
_Vane, would you have me steal a Dory then? Do you make it a Matter of
Conscience_? Said _Holford, to steal a Dory, when you have been a common
Robber and Pyrate, stealing Ships and Cargoes, and plundering all Mankind
that fell in your Way? Stay there, and be d--n'd, if you are so Squeamish_:
And so left him.