The Pyrates came off _Barbadoes_ the beginning of _October_, and cruised
there, and among other Islands, above three Months, without speaking with a
Vessel, so that they were almost starv'd for want of Provisions, being
reduc'd to a Pound of Meat a Day between ten; at length they fell in with a
_Martinico_ Man of 12 Guns and 35 Hands, far superior in Force, and what
they would not have ventur'd on at another Time, but _Hunger will break
down Stone Walls_; they were resolved to shew the _French_ Men their black
Flag; and if that would not do, they must seek out elsewhere; accordingly,
they boldly ran up a-long-side of the Sloop, with their pyratical Colours
flying, and told them, if they did not strike immediately, they would give
them no Quarters; which so intimidated the _Frenchmen_, that they never
fired a Gun. This proved a seasonable Supply; they took her Provisions, and
four of her Men, and let her go. They took presently after, a Sloop
belonging to _New-York_, and a _Virginia_ Man, _Huffam_ Master.

Having now occasion to clean their Vessel, _Phillips_ propos'd _Tobago_,
where the Company he formerly belong'd to, under _Anstis_ and _Fenn_, broke
up; to induce them to it, he told them when he left the Island, there was
left behind six or eight of their Company that were not willing to go to
_England_, with three Negroes: Whereupon they sail'd to the Island, and
after a careful Search, found only one of the Negroes, whose Name was
_Pedro_, who inform'd Captain _Phillips_, that those that were left behind
were taken by a Man of War's Crew, and hang'd at _Antegoa_, among whom was
_Fenn_, their Captain.

They took _Pedro_ on Board, and then fell to Business, careening their
Vessel; and just as they had finished their Work, a Man of War's Boat came
into the Harbour, the Ship being cruising to Leeward of the Island. It was
easily guess'd upon what Errant she was sent, and therefore they lost no
Time, but, as soon as the Boat went away, warp'd out, and ply'd to Windward
for Security, but left the four _French_ Men, they took out of the
_Martinico_ Sloop, behind.