In Rejoycings and Festivals they are equally ridiculous; these are commonly
made on some Friend's Escape from Shipwreck, or other Danger: They meet in
a large Room of the House, with a Strum Strum, to which one of the Company,
perhaps, sings wofully; the rest standing round the Room close to the
Petitions, take it in their Turns (one or two at a time) to step round,
called Dancing, the whole clapping their Hands continually, and hooping out
every Minute _Abeo_, which signify no more, than, _how do you_. And this
foolish Mirth will continue three or four Days together at a House, and
perhaps twelve or sixteen Hours at a time.

The _Portugueze_, tho' eminently abstemious and temperate in all other
Things, are unbounded in their Lusts; and perhaps they substitute the
former in room of a Surgeon, as a Counterpoison to the Mischiefs of a
promiscuous Salacity: They have most of them Venereal Taints, and with Age
become meager and hectick: I saw two Instances here of Venereal Ulcers that
had cancerated to the Bowels, Spectacles that would have effectually
perswaded Men (I think) how Salutary the Restriction of Laws are.

_Annobono_ is the last, and of the least Consequence of the three Islands;
there are Plenty of Fruits and Provisions, exchanged to Ships for old
Cloaths and Trifles of any Sort; they have a Governor nominated from St.
_Thome_, and two or three Priests, neither of which are minded, every one
living at Discretion, and fill'd with Ignorance and Lust.

* * *

To return to _Davis_, the next Day after he left _Anamaboe_, early in the
Morning, the Man at the Mast-Head espied a Sail. It must be observed, they
keep a good Look-out; for, according to their Articles, he who first espies
a Sail, if she proves a Prize, is entitled to the best Pair of Pistols on
Board, over and above his Dividend, in which they take a singular Pride;
and a Pair of Pistols has sometimes been sold for thirty Pounds, from one
to another.

Immediately they gave Chace, and soon came up with her; the Ship proved to
be a _Hollander_, and being betwixt _Davis_ and the Shore, she made all the
Sail she could, intending to run aground; _Davis_ guessed her Design, and
putting out all his small Sails, came up with her before she could effect
it, and fired a Broad-side, upon which she immediately struck, and called
for Quarter. It was granted, for according to _Davis_'s Articles, it was
agreed, that Quarter should be given whenever it was called for, upon Pain
of Death. This Ship proved a very rich Prize, having the Governor of _Acra_
on Board, with all his Effects, going to _Holland_; there was in Money to
the Value of 15000 _l._ Sterling, besides other valuable Merchandizes, all
which they brought on Board of themselves.

Upon this new Success, they restored Captain _Hall_ and Captain _Plumb_,
before-mentioned, their Ships again, but strengthened their Company with
thirty five Hands, all white Men, taken out of these two and the _Morrice_
Sloop; they also restored the _Dutch_ their Ship, after having plunder'd
her, as is mentioned.