To sum up the whole, if it be considered, first, that the sickly State of
the Men of War, when they sail'd from _Princes_, was the Misfortune that
hindered their being as far as _Sierraleon_, and consequently out of the
Track the Pyrates then took. That those Pyrates, directly contrary to their
Design, in the second Expedition, should get above Cape _Corso_, and that
nigh _Axim_, a Chace should offer, that inevitably must discover them, and
be soon communicated to the Men of War. That the satiating their evil and
malicious Tempers at _Whydah_, in burning the _Porcupine_, and running off
with the _French_ Ship, had strengthened the _Swallow_ with 30 Men. That
the _Swallow_ should miss them in that Road, where probably she had not, or
at least so effectually obtained her End. That they should be so far
infatuated at Cape _Lopez_, as to divide their Strength, which when
collected, might have been so formidable. And lastly, that the Conquest
should be without Bloodshed: I say, considering all these Circumstances, it
shews that the Hand of Providence was concerned in their Destruction. As to
their Behaviour after they were taken, it was found that they had great
Inclinations to rebel, if they could have laid hold of any Opportunity. For
they were very uneasy under Restraint, having been lately all Commanders
themselves; nor could they brook their Diet, or Quarters, without cursing
and swearing, and upbraiding each other, with the Folly that had brought
them to it.

So that to secure themselves against any mad desperate Undertaking of
theirs, they strongly barricado'd the Gun-Room, and made another Prison
before it; an Officer, with Pistols and Cutlashes, doing Duty, Night and
Day, and the Prisoners within, manacled and shackled.

They would yet in these Circumstances be impudently merry, saying, when
they viewed their Nakedness, _that they had not left them a halfpenny, to
give old_ Charon, _to ferry them over_ Stix: And at their thin Commons,
they would observe, that they fell away so fast, that they should not have
Weight left to hang them. _Sutton_ used to be very prophane; he happening
to be in the same Irons with another Prisoner, who was more serious than
ordinary, and read and pray'd often, as became his Condition; this Man
_Sutton_ used to swear at, and ask him, _what he proposed by so much Noise
and Devotion? Heaven_, says the other, _I hope. Heaven, you Fool_, says
_Sutton, did you ever hear of any Pyrates going thither? Give me H--ll,
it's a merrier Place; I'll give_ Roberts _a Salute of_ 13 _Guns at
Entrance._ And when he found such ludicrous Expressions had no Effect on
him, he made a formal Complaint, and requested that the Officer would
either remove this Man, or take his Prayer-Book away, as a common
Disturber.