The latter End of _July_, (1723,) _Low_ took a large Ship, called the
_Merry Christmas_, and fitted her for a Pyrate, cut several Ports in her,
and mounted her with 34 Guns. _Low_ goes aboard of this Ship, assumes the
Title of Admiral, and hoists a black Flag, with the Figure of Death in red,
at the Main-topmast Head, and takes another Voyage to the _Western
Islands_, where he arrived the Beginning of _September._ The first Vessel
he met with there, was a Brigantine, formerly an _English_ Sloop, commanded
by _Elias Wild_, but lately bought by a _Portuguese_ Nobleman, and altered:
She was manned partly with _English_, and partly _Portuguese_; the latter
_Low_ caused to be hang'd, by Way of Reprisal, for some of his own Men sent
thither in a Sloop from the _Cape de Verd_ Islands, as has been mentioned:
The _English_ Men he thrust into their own Boat, to shift for themselves,
and set Fire to the Vessel.

At St. _Michaels_, they sent in their Boats and cut out of the Road, a new
_London_ built Ship of 14 Guns, commanded by Captain _Thompson_, who was
taken there the Year before, by _Low_, in the _Rose_ Pink. The Boats had
fewer Men than the Ship, and Captain _Thompson_ would have defended
himself, but his Men through Cowardize, or too great an Inclination of
becoming Pyrates themselves, refused to stand by him, and he was obliged to
surrender; and when he came aboard the Pyrate, had his Ears cut off close
to his Head, for only proposing to resist Admiral _Low_'s black Flag; they
gave him one of his own Boats, and burnt his Ship.

The next was a _Portuguese_ Bark that fell into their Hands, whose Men came
off somewhat better than usual, for they only cut them with their
Cutlashes, out of Wantonness, turned them all into their Boat, and set
their Vessel on Fire. When the Boat was going from the Side of the Ship,
one of _Low_'s Men, who, we may suppose, was forced into his Gang, was
drinking with a Silver Tankard at one of the Ports, and took his
Opportunity to drop into the Boat among the _Portuguese_, and lye down in
the Bottom, in order to escape along with them: After he had stowed himself
in the Boat, so as not to be seen, it came into his Head, that the Tankard
might prove of some Use to him, where he was going; so he got up again,
laid hold of the Utensil, and went off, without being discover'd: In which
Attempt had he failed, no doubt his Life, if not the Lives of all the
People in the Boat, would have paid for it: The Name of this Man is
_Richard Hains._

_Low_ took his old Tour to the _Canaries, Cape de Verd_ Islands, and so to
the Coast of _Guiney_; but nothing extraordinary happened till they arrived
near _Sierraleon_ in _Africa_, where they met with a Ship call'd the
_Delight_, Captain _Hunt_ Commander; this Ship they thought fit for their
own Purpose, for she had been a small Man of War, and carried 12 Guns;
however, they mounted 16 on Board her, mann'd her with 60 Men, and
appointed one _Spriggs_, who was then their Quarter-Master, to be Captain
of her, who, two Days after, separated from the Admiral, and went to the
_West-Indies_ a-pyrating, upon his own, and particular Company's, Account,
where for the present we shall leave him.