On the 23d of _October_, off of _Long Island_, he took a small Brigantine,
bound from _Jamaica_ to _Salem_ in _New-England, John Shattock_ Master, and
a little Sloop; they rifled the Brigantine, and sent her away. From hence
they resolved on a Cruize between Cape _Meise_ and Cape _Nicholas_, where
they spent some Time, without seeing or speaking with any Vessel, till the
latter End of _November_; then they fell upon a Ship, which 'twas expected
would have struck as soon as their black Colours were hoisted; but instead
of that, she discharged a Broadside upon the Pyrate, and hoisted Colours,
which shewed her to be a _French_ Man of War. _Vane_ desired to have
nothing further to say to her, but trimm'd his Sails, and stood away from
the _French_ Man; but _Monsieur_ having a Mind to be better informed who he
was, set all his Sails, and crowded after him. During this Chace, the
Pyrates were divided in their Resolutions what to do: _Vane_, the Captain,
was for making off as fast as he could, alledging the Man of War was too
strong to cope with; but one _John Rackam_, who was an Officer, that had a
kind of a Check upon the Captain, rose up in Defence of a contrary Opinion,
saying, _That tho' she had more Guns, and a greater Weight of Mettal, they
might board her, and then the best Boys would carry the Day. Rackam_ was
well seconded, and the Majority was for boarding; but _Vane_ urged, _That
it was too rash and desperate an Enterprize, the Man of War appearing to be
twice their Force; and that their Brigantine might be sunk by her before
they could reach on board_. The Mate, one _Robert Deal_, was of _Vane_'s
Opinion, as were about fifteen more, and all the rest joined with _Rackam_,
the Quarter-Master. At length the Captain made use of his Power to
determine this Dispute, which, in these Cases, is absolute and
uncontroulable, by their own Laws, _viz_. in _fighting, chasing_, or _being
chased_; in all other Matters whatsoever, he is governed by a Majority; so
the Brigantine having the Heels, as they term it, of the _French_ Man, she
came clear off.

But the next Day, the Captain's Behaviour was obliged to stand the Test of
a Vote, and a Resolution passed against his Honour and Dignity, branding
him with the Name of Coward, deposing him from the Command, and turning him
out of the Company, with Marks of Infamy; and, with him, went all those who
did not Vote for boarding the _French_ Man of War. They had with them a
small Sloop that had been taken by them some Time before, which they gave
to _Vane_, and the discarded Members; and, that they might be in a
Condition to provide for themselves, by their own honest Endeavours, they
let them have a sufficient Quantity of Provisions and Ammunition along with
them.

_John Rackam_ was voted Captain of the Brigantine, in _Vane_'s Room, and
proceeded towards the _Caribbee Islands_, where we must leave him, till we
have finished our Story of _Charles Vane_.

The Sloop sailed for the Bay of _Honduras_, and _Vane_ and his Crew put her
into as good a Condition as they could by the Way, to follow the old Trade.
They cruised two or three Days off the North-West Part of _Jamaica_, and
took a Sloop and two Pettiagas, and all the Men entered with them; the
Sloop they kept, and _Robert Deal_ went Captain of her.