They were now closely and warmly engaged, the Lieutenant and twelve Men,
against _Black-beard_ and fourteen, till the Sea was tinctur'd with Blood
round the Vessel; _Black-beard_ received a Shot into his Body from the
Pistol that Lieutenant _Maynard_ discharg'd, yet he stood his Ground, and
fought with great Fury, till he received five and twenty Wounds, and five
of them by Shot. At length, as he was cocking another Pistol, having fired
several before, he fell down dead; by which Time eight more out of the
fourteen dropp'd, and all the rest, much wounded, jump'd over-board, and
call'd out for Quarters, which was granted, tho' it was only prolonging
their Lives for a few Days. The Sloop _Ranger_ came up, and attack'd the
Men that remain'd in _Black-beard_'s Sloop, with equal Bravery, till they
likewise cry'd for Quarters.

Here was an End of that couragious Brute, who might have pass'd in the
World for a Heroe, had he been employ'd in a good Cause; his Destruction,
which was of such Consequence to the Plantations, was entirely owing to the
Conduct and Bravery of Lieutenant _Maynard_ and his Men, who might have
destroy'd him with much less Loss, had they had a Vessel with great Guns;
but they were obliged to use small Vessels, because the Holes and Places he
lurk'd in, would not admit of others of greater Draught; and it was no
small Difficulty for this Gentleman to get to him, having grounded his
Vessel, at least, a hundred times, in getting up the River, besides other
Discouragements, enough to have turn'd back any Gentleman without
Dishonour, who was less resolute and bold than this Lieutenant. The
Broadside that did so much Mischief before they boarded, in all Probability
saved the rest from Destruction; for before that _Teach_ had little or no
Hopes of escaping, and therefore had posted a resolute Fellow, a Negroe
whom he had bred up, with a lighted Match, in the Powder-Room, with
Commands to blow up when he should give him Orders, which was as soon as
the Lieutenant and his Men could have entered, that so he might have
destroy'd his Conquerors: and when the Negro found how it went with
_Black-beard_, he could hardly be perswaded from the rash Action, by two
Prisoners that were then in the Hold of the Sloop.

What seems a little odd, is, that some of these Men, who behaved so bravely
against _Black-beard_, went afterwards a pyrating themselves, and one of
them was taken along with _Roberts_; but I do not find that any of them
were provided for, except one that was hanged; but this is a Digression.

The Lieutenant caused _Black-beard_'s Head to be severed from his Body, and
hung up at the Bolt-sprit End, then he sailed to _Bath-Town_, to get Relief
for his wounded Men.

It must be observed, that in rummaging the Pyrate's Sloop, they found
several Letters and written Papers, which discovered the Correspondence
betwixt Governor _Eden_, the Secretary and Collector, and also some Traders
at _New-York_, and _Black-beard_. It is likely he had Regard enough for his
Friends, to have destroyed these Papers before the Action, in order to
hinder them from falling into such Hands, where the Discovery would be of
no Use, either to the Interest or Reputation of these fine Gentlemen, if it
had not been his fixed Resolution to have blown up together, when he found
no possibility of escaping.