While she was cleaning, a Scheme was concerted between Captain _Durfey_,
some other Prisoners, and two or three of the Pyrates, for to seize some of
the Chiefs, and carry off the Brigantine; but the same being discovered
before she was fit for sailing, their Design was prevented: However,
Captain _Durfey_, and four or five more, got ashore with some Arms and
Ammunition; and when the Pyrates Canoe came in for Water, he seiz'd the
Boat with the Men; upon which _Anstis_ ordered another Boat to be mann'd
with 30 Hands and sent ashore, which was accordingly done; but Captain
_Durfey_, and the Company he had by that Time got together, gave them such
a warm Reception, that they were contented to betake themselves to their
Vessel again.

About the beginning of _December_, 1722, _Anstis_ left this Place and
return'd to the Islands, designing to accumulate all the Power and Strength
he could, since there was no looking back. He took in the Cruise a good
Ship, commanded by Captain _Smith_, which he mounted with 24 Guns, and
_Fenn_, a one handed Man, who commanded the _Morning-Star_ when she was
lost, went aboard to command her. They cruis'd together, and took a Vessel
or two, and then went to the _Bahama Islands_, and there met with what they
wanted, _viz._ a Sloop loaded with Provisions, from _Dublin_, called the
_Antelope._

It was time now to think of some Place to fit up and clean their Frigate
lately taken, and put her in a Condition to do Business; accordingly they
pitch'd upon the Island of _Tobago_, where they arrived the beginning of
_April_, 1723, with the _Antelope_ Sloop and her Cargo.

They fell to work immediately, got the Guns, Stores, and every Thing else
out upon the Island, and put the Ship upon the Heel; and just then, as ill
Luck would have it, came in the _Winchelsea_ Man of War, by Way of Visit,
which put the Marooners into such a Surprize, that they set Fire to the
Ship and Sloop, and fled ashore to the Woods. _Anstis_, in the Brigantine,
escap'd, by having a light Pair of Heels, but it put his Company into such
a Disorder, that their Government could never be set to rights again; for
some of the New-Comers, and those who had been tir'd with the Trade, put an
End to the Reign, by shooting _Tho. Anstis_ in his Hammock, and afterwards
the Quarter-Master, and two or three others; the rest submitting, they put
into Irons, and surrender'd them up, and the Vessel, at _Curacco_, a
_Dutch_ Settlement, where they were try'd and hang'd; and those concerned
in delivering up the Vessel, acquitted.

But to return to Captain _Fenn_, he was taken stragling with his Gunner and
three more, a Day or two after their Misfortune, by the Man of War's Men,
and carry'd to _Antegoa_, where they were all executed, and _Fenn_ hang'd
in Chains. Those who remain'd, staid some Time in the Island, keeping up
and down in the Woods, with a Hand to look out; at length Providence so
order'd it, that a small Sloop came into the Harbour, which they all got
aboard of, except two or three Negroes, and those they left behind. They
did not think fit to pursue any further Adventures, and therefore
unanimously resolved to steer for _England_, which they accordingly did,
and in _October_ last came into _Bristol_ Channel, sunk the Sloop, and
getting ashore in the Boat, dispersed themselves to their Abodes.

CHAP. XI. OF Captain _WORLEY_, And his CREW.