When they left the Banks of _Newfoundland_, they sailed for the
_West-Indies_, and the Provisions growing short, they went for the Latitude
of the Island _Deseada_, to cruise, it being esteemed the likeliest Place
to meet with such Ships as (they used in their Mirth to say) were consigned
to them, with Supplies. And it has been very much suspected that Ships have
loaded with Provisions at the _English_ Colonies, on pretence of Trading on
the Coast of _Africa_, when they have in reality been consigned to them;
and tho' a shew of Violence is offered to them when they meet, yet they are
pretty sure of bringing their Cargo to a good Market.

However, at this Time they missed with their usual Luck, and Provisions and
Necessaries becoming more scarce every Day, they retired towards St.
_Christophers_, where being deny'd all Succour or Assistance from the
Government, they fir'd in Revenge on the Town, and burnt two Ships in the
Road, one of them commanded by Captain _Cox_, of _Bristol_; and then
retreated farther to the Island of St. _Bartholomew_, where they met with
much handsomer Treatment. The Governor not only supplying them with
Refreshments, but he and the Chiefs carressing them in the most friendly
Manner: And the Women, from so good an Example, endeavoured to outvie each
other in Dress, and Behaviour, to attract the good Graces of such generous
Lovers, that paid well for their Favours.

Sated at length with these Pleasures, and having taken on Board a good
supply of fresh Provisions, they voted unanimously for the Coast of
_Guiney_, and in the Latitude of 22 N. in their Voyage thither, met with a
_French_ Ship from _Martinico_, richly laden, and, which was unlucky for
the Master, had a property of being fitter for their Purpose, than the
Banker. _Exchange was no Robbery_ they said, and so after a little mock
Complaisance to _Monsieur_, for the Favour he had done them, they shifted
their Men, and took leave: This was their first _Royal Fortune._

In this Ship _Roberts_ proceeded on his designed Voyage; but before they
reached _Guiney_, he proposed to touch at _Brava_, the Southermost of
_Cape_ _Verd_ Islands and clean. But here again by an intolerable Stupidity
and want of Judgment, they got so far to Leeward of their Port, that
despairing to regain it, or any of the Windward Parts of _Africa_, they
were obliged to go back again with the Trade-Wind, for the _West-Indies_;
which had very near been the Destruction of them all. _Surinam_ was the
Place now designed for, which was at no less than 700 Leagues Distance, and
they had but one Hogshead of Water left to supply 124 Souls for that
Passage; a sad Circumstance that eminently exposes the Folly and Madness
among Pyrates, and he must be an inconsiderate Wretch indeed, who, if he
could separate the Wickedness and Punishment from the Fact, would yet
hazard his Life amidst such Dangers, as their want of Skill and Forecast
made them liable to.