_Adam Comry_, Surgeon of the _Elizabeth_, says, that altho' the Prisoner
had, on Account of his Indisposition and Want, received many Civilities
from him, before meeting with the Pyrates, he yet understood it was thro'
his and _Scudamore_'s Means, that he had been compelled among them: The
Prisoner was very alert and chearful, he says, at meeting with _Roberts_,
hailed him, told him he was glad to see him, and would come on Board
presently, borrowing of the Deponent a clean Shirt and Drawers, for his
better Appearence and Reception; he signed their Articles willingly, and
used Arguments with him to do the same, saying, they should make their
Voyage in eight Months, to _Brasil_, Share 6 or 700 _l._ a Man, and then
break up. Again, when the Crew came to an Election of a chief Surgeon, and
this Deponent was set up with the others, _Wilson_ told him, he hoped he
should carry it from _Scudamore_, for that a quarter Share (which they had
more than others) would be worth looking after; but the Deponent missed the
Preferment, by the good Will of the _Ranger_'s People, who, in general,
voted for _Scudamore_, to get rid of him, (the chief Surgeon being always
to remain with the Commadore.)

It appeared likewise by the Evidence of Captain _Jo. Trahern, Tho. Castel_,
and others, who had been taken by the Pyrates, and thence had Opportunities
of observing the Prisoners Conduct, that he seem'd thoroughly satisfy'd
with that Way of Life, and was particularly intimate with _Roberts_; they
often scoffing at the Mention of a Man of War, and saying, if they should
meet with any of the Turnip-Man's Ships, they would blow up, and go to
H--ll together. Yet setting aside these silly Freaks, to recommend himself,
his Laziness had got him many Enemies, even _Roberts_ told him, (on the
Complaint of a wounded Man, whom he had refused to dress) that he was a
double Rogue, to be there a second Time, and threat'ned to cut his Ears
off.

The Evidence further assured the Court, from Captain _Thomas Tarlton_, that
the Prisoner was taken out of his Brother's Ship, some Months before, a
first Time, and being forward to oblige his new Company, had presently
ask'd for the Pyrates Boat, to fetch the Medicine Chest away; when the Wind
and Current proving too hard to contend with, they were drove on Shore at
Cape _Montzerado._

The Prisoner called for _William Darling_, and _Samuel Morwel_, (acquitted)
and _Nicholas Butler._

_William Darling_ deposed, the first Time the Prisoner fell into their
Hands, _Roberts_ mistook him for _Jo. Tarlton_ the Master, and being
informed it was the Surgeon who came to represent him, (then indisposed,)
he presently swore he should be his Mess-Mate, to which _Wilson_ reply'd,
he hop'd not, he had a Wife and Child, which the other laughed at; and that
he had been two Days on Board, before he went in that Boat, which was drove
on Shore at Cape _Montzerado._ And at his second coming, in the
_Elizabeth_, he heard _Roberts_ order he should be brought on Board in the
first Boat.

_Samuel Morwel_ says, that he has heard him bewail his Condition, while on
Board the Pyrate, and desired one _Thomas_, to use his Interest with
_Roberts_, for a Discharge, saying, his Employ, and the little Fortune he
had left at Home, would, he hop'd, exempt him the further Trouble of
seeking his Bread at Sea.