Their Beefs are small and lean, (two hundred Weight or a little more,) but
the Goats, Hogs and Fowls very good, their Sugar course and dirty, and Rum
very ordinary; as these Refreshments lay most with People who are in want
of other Necessaries, they come to us in Way of bartering, very cheap: A
good Hog for an old Cutlash; a fat Fowl for a Span of _Brasil_ Tobacco, (no
other Sort being valued, _&c_.) But with Money you give eight Dollars _per_
Head for Cattle; three Dollars for a Goat; six Dollars for a grown Hog; a
Testune and a Half for a Fowl; a Dollar _per_ Gallon for Rum; two Dollars a
Roove for Sugar; and half a Dollar for a Dozen of Paraquets: Here is Plenty
likewise of Corn and Farine, of Limes, Citrons and Yamms.

The Island is reckoned nigh a Square, each Side 18 Leagues long, hilly, and
lays under the _Ã†quinoctial_, a wooden Bridge just without the Town, being
said not to deviate the least Part of a Minute, either to the Southward or
Northward; and notwithstanding this warm Scituation, and continual vertical
Suns, the Islanders are very healthy, imputed by those who are disposed to
be merry, in a great Measure to the Want of even so much as one Surgeon or
Physician amongst them.

Isle _Del Principe_, the next in Magnitude, a pleasant and delightful Spot
to the grave, and thoughtfull Disposition of the _Portuguese_, an
Improvement of Country Retirement, in that, this may be a happy and
uninterrupted Retreat from the whole World.

I shall divide what I have to say on this Island, into Observations made on
our Approach to it, on the Seas round it, the Harbour, Produce of the
Island and Seasons, Way of Living among the Inhabitants, some Custom of the
Negroes, with such proper Deductions on each as may illustrate the
Description, and inform the Reader.

We were bound hither from _Whydah_, at the latter Part of the Month _July_,
when the Rains are over, and the Winds hang altogether S. W. (as they do
before the Rains, S. E.) yet with this Wind (when at Sea) we found the Ship
gained unexpectedly so far to the Southward, (_i. e._ Windward,) that we
could with ease have weathered any of the Islands, and this seems next to
impossible should be, if the Currents, which were strong to Leeward, in the
Road of _Whydah_, had extended in like Manner cross the Bite of _Benin_:
No, it must then have been very difficult to have weathered even Cape
_Formosa_: On this Occasion, I shall farther expatiate upon the Currents on
the whole Coast of _Guiney_.

The Southern Coast of _Africa_ runs in a Line of Latitude, the Northern on
an Eastern Line, but both strait, with the fewest Inlets, Gulphs or Bays,
of either of the four Continents; the only large and remarkable one, is
that of _Benin_ and _Calabar_, towards which the Currents of each Coast
tend, and is strongest from the Southward, because more open to a larger
Sea, whose rising it is (tho' little and indiscernable at any Distance from
the Land,) that gives rise to these Currents close in Shore, which are
nothing but Tides altered and disturbed by the Make and Shape of Lands.