The Court considering the Partiality that might be objected in acquitting
one, and condemning another of the same standing, thought sit to remark it
as a clear Testimony of their Integrity, that their Care and Indulgence to
each Man, in allowing his particular Defence, was to exempt from the Rigour
of the Law, such, who it must be allowed, would have stood too
promiscuously condemned, if they had not been heard upon any other Fact
than that of the _Swallow_; and herein what could better direct them, than
a Character and Behaviour from their own Associates; for tho' a voluntary
Entry with the Pyrates may be doubtful, yet his consequent Actions are not,
and it is not so material how a Man comes among Pyrates, as how he acts
when he is there. _Guilty._

_George Wilson._

J_OHN Sharp_, Master of the _Elizabeth_, in which Ship the Prisoner
was Passenger, and fell a second Time into the Pyrates Hands, deposes, that
he took the said _Wilson_ off from _Sestos_, on this Coast, paying to the
Negroes for his Ransom, the Value of three Pound five Shillings in Goods,
for which he had taken a Note, that he thought he had done a charitable Act
in this, till meeting with one Captain _Canning_, he was ask'd, why he
would release such a Rogue as _Wilson_ was? For that he had been a
Voluntier with the Pyrates, out of _John Tarlton._ And when the Deponent
came to be a Prisoner himself, he found _Thomas_, the Brother of this _John
Tarlton_, a Prisoner with the Pyrates also, who was immediately on
_Wilson_'s Instigation, in a most sad manner misused and beat, and had been
shot, through the Fury and Rage of some of those Fellows, if the Town-side,
(_i. e. Liverpool_) Men, had not hid him in a Stay-Sail, under the
Bowsprit; for _Moody_ and _Harper_, with their Pistols cock'd, searched
every Corner of the Ship to find him, and came to this Deponent's Hammock,
whom they had like fatally to have mistaken for _Tarlton_, but on his
calling out, they found their Error, and left him with this comfortable
Anodyne, That he was the honest Fellow who brought the Doctor. At coming
away, the Prisoner asked about his Note, whether the Pyrates had it or no?
Who not being able readily to tell, he reply'd, it's no Matter Mr. _Sharp_,
I believe I shall hardly ever come to _England_ to pay it.