This was part of the Evidence against her, which she denied; which, whether
true or no, thus much is certain, that she did not want Bravery, nor indeed
was she less remarkable for her Modesty, according to her Notions of
Virtue: Her Sex was not so much as suspected by any Person on Board, till
_Anne Bonny_, who was not altogether so reserved in point of Chastity, took
a particular liking to her; in short, _Anne Bonny_ took her for a handsome
young Fellow, and for some Reasons best known to herself, first discovered
her Sex to _Mary Read; Mary Read_ knowing what she would be at, and being
very sensible of her own Incapacity that Way, was forced to come to a right
Understanding with her, and so to the great Disappointment of _Anne Bonny_,
she let her know she was a Woman also; but this Intimacy so disturb'd
Captain _Rackam_, who was the Lover and Gallant of _Anne Bonny_, that he
grew furiously jealous, so that he told _Anne Bonny_, he would cut her new
Lover's Throat, therefore, to quiet him, she let him into the Secret also.

Captain _Rackam_, (as he was enjoined,) kept the Thing a Secret from all
the Ship's Company, yet, notwithstanding all her Cunning and Reserve, Love
found her out in this Disguise, and hinder'd her from forgetting her Sex.
In their Cruize they took a great Number of Ships belonging to _Jamaica_,
and other Parts of the _West-Indies_, bound to and from _England_; and when
ever they meet any good Artist, or other Person that might be of any great
Use to their Company, if he was not willing to enter, it was their Custom
to keep him by Force. Among these was a young Fellow of a most engageing
Behaviour, or, at least, he was so in the Eyes of _Mary Read_, who became
so smitten with his Person and Address, that she could neither rest, Night
or Day; but as there is nothing more ingenious than Love, it was no hard
Matter for her, who had before been practiced in these Wiles, to find a Way
to let him discover her Sex: She first insinuated her self into his liking,
by talking against the Life of a Pyrate, which he was altogether averse to,
so they became Mess-Mates and strict Companions: When she found he had a
Friendship for her, as a Man, she suffered the Discovery to be made, by
carelesly shewing her Breasts, which were very White.