On the 10th, in the Morning, the Man of War bore away to round the Cape.
_Roberts_'s Crew discerning their Masts over the Land, went down into the
Cabin, to acquaint him of it, he being then at Breakfast with his new
Guest, Captain _Hill_, on a savory Dish of Solomongundy, and some of his
own Beer. He took no Notice of it, and his Men almost as little, some
saying she was a _Portuguese_ Ship, others a _French_ Slave Ship, but the
major Part swore it was the _French Ranger_ returning, and were merrily
debating for some Time, on the Manner of Reception, whether they should
salute, or not; but as the _Swallow_ approached nigher, Things appeared
plainer, and though they were stigmatiz'd with the Name of Cowards, who
shewed any Apprehension of Danger, yet some of them, now undeceived,
declared it to _Roberts_, especially one _Armstrong_, who had deserted from
that Ship, and knew her well: Those _Roberts_ swore at as Cowards, who
meant to dishearten the Men, asking them if it were so, whether they were
afraid to fight, or no? And hardly refrained from Blows. What his own
Apprehensions were, till she hawled up her Ports, and hoisted their proper
Colours, is uncertain; but then being perfectly convinced, he slipped his
Cable, got under Sail, and ordered his Men to Arms, without any shew of
Timidity, dropping a first Rate Oath, _that it was a Bite_, but, at the
same Time, resolved, like a gallant Rogue, to get clear, or die.

There was one _Armstrong_, as I just mention'd, a Deserter from the
_Swallow_, whom they enquired of concerning the Trim and Sailing of that
Ship; he told them she sail'd best upon a Wind, and therefore, if they
designed to leave her, they should go before it.

The Danger was imminent, and Time very short, to consult of Means to
extricate himself; his Resolution in this Streight, was as follows: To pass
close to the _Swallow_, with all their Sails, and receive her Broadside,
before they returned a Shot; if disabled by this, or that they could not
depend on sailing, then to run on Shore at the Point, (which is steep to)
and every one to shift for himself among the Negroes; or failing in these,
to board, and blow up together, for he saw that the greatest Part of his
Men were drunk, passively Couragious, unfit for Service.