Some Days after the taking of the _Virginia_ Man last mentioned, in
cruising in the Latitude of _Jamaica, Kennedy_ took a Sloop bound thither
from _Boston_, loaded with Bread and Flower; aboard of this Sloop went all
the Hands who were for breaking the Gang, and left those behind that had a
Mind to pursue further Adventures. Among the former were _Kennedy_, their
Captain, of whose Honour they had such a dispicable Notion, that they were
about to throw him over-board, when they found him in the Sloop, as fearing
he might betray them all, at their return to _England_; he having in his
Childhood been bred a Pick-pocket, and before he became a Pyrate, a
House-breaker; both Professions that these Gentlemen have a very mean
Opinion of. However, Captain _Kennedy_, by taking solemn Oaths of Fidelity
to his Companions, was suffered to proceed with them.

In this Company there was but one that pretended to any skill in
Navigation, (for _Kennedy_ could neither write nor read, he being preferred
to the Command merely for his Courage, which indeed he had often
signaliz'd, particularly in taking the _Portuguese_ Ship,) and he proved to
be a Pretender only; for shaping their Course to _Ireland_, where they
agreed to land, they ran away to the North-West Coast of _Scotland_, and
there were tost about by hard Storms of Wind for several Days, without
knowing where they were, and in great Danger of perishing: At length they
pushed the Vessel into a little Creek, and went all ashore, leaving the
Sloop at an Anchor for the next Comers.

The whole Company refresh'd themselves at a little Village about five Miles
from the Place where they left the Sloop, and passed there for Ship-wreck'd
Sailors, and no doubt might have travelled on without Suspicion; but the
mad and riotous Manner of their Living on the Road, occasion'd their
Journey to be cut short, as we shall observe presently.

_Kennedy_ and another left them here, and travelling to one of the
Sea-Ports, ship'd themselves for _Ireland_, and arrived there in Safety.
Six or seven wisely withdrew from the rest, travelled at their leasure, and
got to their much desired Port of _London_, without being disturbed or
suspected; but the main Gang alarm'd the Country where-ever they came,
drinking and roaring at such a Rate, that the People shut themselves up in
their Houses, in some Places, not daring to venture out among so many mad
Fellows: In other Villages, they treated the whole Town, squandering their
Money away, as if, like _Ã†sop_, they wanted to lighten their Burthens: This
expensive manner of Living procured two of their drunken Straglers to be
knocked on the Head, they being found murdered in the Road, and their Money
taken from them: All the rest, to the Number of seventeen as they drew nigh
to _Edinburgh_, were arrested and thrown into Goal, upon Suspicion, of they
knew not what; However, the Magistrates were not long at a Loss for proper
Accusations, for two of the Gang offering themselves for Evidences were
accepted of; and the others were brought to a speedy Tryal, whereof nine
were convicted and executed.