By this time the Boatswain was dead; for as soon as _Filemore_ saw the
Master laid hold of, he raised up the Axe, and divided his Enemy's Head in
two: The Noise brought the Captain upon Deck, whom _Cheeseman_ saluted with
the Blow of a Mallet, which broke his Jaw-Bone, but did not knock him down;
_Harradine_ came in then with the Carpenter's Adds, but _Sparks_, the
Gunner, interposing between him and Captain _Phillips, Cheeseman_ trips up
his Heels, and flung him into the Arms of _Charles Ivymay_, one of his
Consorts, who that Instant discharg'd him into the Sea; and at the same
Time _Harradine_ compassed his Business with the Captain aforesaid:
_Cheeseman_ lost no Time, but from the Deck jumps into the Hold, and was
about to beat out the Brains of _Archer_, the Quarter-Master, having struck
him two or three Blows with his blunt Weapon the Mallet, when _Harry
Giles_, a young Lad, came down after him, and desir'd his Life might be
spar'd, as an Evidence of their own Innocence; that he having all the Spoil
and Plunder in his Custody, it may appear, that these tragick Proceedings
were not undertaken with any dishonest View of seizing or appropriating the
Effects to themselves; which prudent Advice prevail'd, and he and three
more were made Prisoners, and secured.

The Work being done, they went about Ship, altered the Course from
_Newfoundland_ to _Boston_, and arrived safe the 3d of _May_ following, to
the great Joy of that Province.

On the 12th of _May_, 1724, a special Court of Admiralty was held for the
Tryal of these Pyrates, when _John Filmore, Edward Cheeseman, John Combs,
Henry Giles, Charles Ivymay, John Bootman_, and _Henry Payne_, the seven
that confederated together for the Pyrates Destruction, were honourably
acquitted; as also three _French_ Men, _John Baptis, Peter Taffery_, and
_Isaac Lassen_, and three Negroes, _Pedro, Francisco_, and _Pierro._ And
_John Rose Archer_, the Quarter-Master, _William White, William Taylor_,
and _William Phillips_, were condemned; the two latter were reprieved for a
Year and a Day, in order to be recommended (though I don't know for what)
as Objects of his Majesty's Mercy. The two former were executed on the 2d
of _June_, and dy'd very penitently, making the following Declarations at
the Place of Execution, with the Assistance of two grave Divines that
attended them.

_The dying Declarations of_ John Rose Archer _and_ William White, _on
the Day of their Execution at_ Boston, June 2, 1724, _for the Crimes of
Pyracy._

First, separately, of _Archer._

I Greatly bewail my Profanations of the Lord's Day, and my
Disobedience to my Parents.

And my Cursing and Swearing, and my blaspheming the Name of the glorious
God.

Unto which I have added, the Sins of Unchastity. And I have provoked the
Holy One, at length, to leave me unto the Crimes of Pyracy and Robbery;
wherein, at last, I have brought my self under the Guilt of Murder also.

But one Wickedness that has led me as much as any, to all the rest, has
been my brutish Drunkenness. By strong Drink I have been heated and
hardened into the Crimes that are now more bitter than Death unto me.

I could wish that Masters of Vessels would not use their Men with so much
Severity, as many of them do, which exposes to great Temptations.

And then of _White._

I am now, with Sorrow, reaping the Fruits of my Disobedience to my Parents,
who used their Endeavours to have me instructed in my Bible, and my
Catechism.