It is the Custom at _Martinico_, for the _Dutch_ Interlopers that have a
Mind to Trade with the People of the Island, to hoist their Jacks when they
come before the Town: _Roberts_ knew the Signal, and being an utter Enemy
to them, he bent his Thoughts upon Mischief; and accordingly came in with
his Jack flying, which, as he expected, they mistook for a good Market, and
thought themselves happiest that could soonest dispatch off their Sloops
and Vessels for Trade. When _Roberts_ had got them within his Power, (one
after another,) he told them, he would not have it said that they came off
for nothing, and therefore ordered them to leave their Money behind, for
that they were a Parcel of Rogues, and hoped they would always meet with
such a _Dutch_ Trade as this was; he reserved one Vessel to set the
Passengers on Shore again, and fired the rest, to the Number of twenty.

_Roberts_ was so enraged at the Attempts that had been made for taking of
him, by the Governors of _Barbados_ and _Martinico_, that he ordered a new
Jack to be made, which they ever after hoisted, with his own Figure
pourtray'd, standing upon two Skulls, and under them the Letters _A B H_
and _A M H_, signifying a _Barbadian_'s and a _Martinican_'s Head, as may
be seen in the Plate of Captain _Roberts._

At _Dominico_, the next Island they touched at, they took a _Dutch_
Interloper of 22 Guns and 75 Men, and a Brigantine belonging to
_Rhode-Island_, one _Norton_ Master. The former made some Defence, till
some of his Men being killed, the rest were discouraged and struck their
Colours. With these two Prizes they went down to _Guadalupe_, and brought
out a Sloop, and a _French_ Fly-Boat laden with Sugar; the Sloop they
burnt, and went on to _Moonay_, another Island, thinking to clean, but
finding the Sea ran too high there to undertake it with Safety, they bent
their Course for the North Part of _Hispaniola_, where, at Bennet's Key, in
the Gulf of _Saminah_, they cleaned both the Ship and the Brigantine. For
tho' _Hispaniola_ be settled by the _Spaniards_ and _French_, and is the
Residence of a President from _Spain_, who receives, and finally determines
Appeals from all the other _Spanish West-India_ Islands; yet is its People
by no Means proportioned to its Magnitude, so that there are many Harbours
in it, to which Pyrates may securely resort without Fear of Discovery from
the Inhabitants.

Whilst they were here, two Sloops came in, as they pretended, to pay
_Roberts_ a Visit, the Masters, whose Names were _Porter_ and _Tuckerman_,
addressed the Pyrate, as the Queen of _Sheba_ did _Solomon_, to wit, _That
having heard of his Fame and Atchievements_, they had put in there to learn
his Art and Wisdom in the Business of pyrating, being Vessels on the same
honourable Design with himself; and hoped with the Communication of his
Knowledge, they should also receive his Charity, being in want of
Necessaries for such Adventures. _Roberts_ was won upon by the Peculiarity
and Bluntness of these two Men, and gave them Powder, Arms, and what ever
else they had Occasion for, spent two or three merry Nights with them, and
at parting, said, _he hoped the L-- would Prosper their handy Works._