The next Prize they made, was the _Lucretia and Catherine_, Captain
_Mills_, of 200 Ton Burthen; they came up with her near the Island
_Disseada, January_ 11th. Upon seizing of this Ship, the Pyrates began to
take upon themselves the Distribution of Justice, examining the Men
concerning their Master's Usage of them, according to the Custom of other
Pyrates; but the Captain over-hearing the Matter, put an End to the
judicial Proceedings, and fell to rumaging the Ship, saying to them, _What
have we to do to turn Reformers, 'tis Money we want?_ And speaking to the
Prisoners, he asked them, _Does your Captain give you Victuals enough?_ And
they answering in the Affirmative: _Why then_, said he, _he ought to give
you Work enough._

After the taking of this Prize, they went to the little Island of _Avis_,
with a Design to clean, and carried the _Lucretia_ along with them, in
order to heave down the _Scowerer_ by her; but meeting there with a Sloop,
the Pyrate gave Chace till the Evening, when she was within Gun-Shot of
her; but fearing to lose Company with the _Lucretia_, who was a heavy
Sailor, they left off, and saw her no more. This Chace brought them to
Leeward of their Port, so that they were obliged to look out for another
Place of Retreat, and the Island of _Ruby_ not being far distant, they
steered for that, and anchored there accordingly; but the next Day a
_Dutch_ Sloop coming as it were, into their Mouths, they could not forbear
dealing, and so making her their Prize, they plundered her of what came,
when shared, to fifty Pounds a Man.

They found this Sloop more for their Purpose than the _Lucretia_, to clean
their own Sloop by, as being much lower in the Wast, and therefore capable
of heaving her Bottom farther out of the Water, so she was discharged, and
the _Dutch_ Man kept in her Room; but not thinking it convenient to lay up
here, for fear a discovery should be made, they turned their Thoughts
another Way, and steered to the Coast of _Jamaica_, where they took a Sugar
Drover, and then run to the _Grand Caimanes_, about 30 Leagues to Leeward
of _Jamaica_, with Intention to clean there; but an unhappy Accident put an
End to their Pyracies, which hitherto had proved very successful to them.

The Boatswain of the Pyrate being a noisy surly Fellow, the Captain had at
several Times Words with him, relating to his Behaviour, who thinking
himself ill treated, not only returned ill Language, but also challenged
the Captain to fight him on the next Shore they came to, with Pistols and
Sword, as is the Custom among these Outlaws. When the Sloop arrived, as
abovementioned, the Captain proposed the Duel; but the cowardly Boatswain
refused to fight, or go ashore, tho' it was his own Challenge. When Captain
_Evans_ saw there was nothing to be done with him, he took his Cane, and
gave him a hearty drubbing; but the Boatswain not being able to bear such
an Indignity, drew out a Pistol and shot _Evans_ thro' the Head, so that he
fell down dead; and the Boatswain immediately jumped over-board, and swam
towards the Shore; but the Boat was quickly mann'd and sent after him,
which took him up and brought him aboard.