What followed concerning _Anstis_'s Pyracies, has been included in the two
preceeding Chapters; I shall only observe that the Combination of these six
Men abovementioned, was the Beginning of that Company, that afterwards
proved so formidable under Captain _Roberts_, from whom _Anstis_ separated
the 18th of _April_ 1721, in the _Good Fortune_ Brigantine, leaving his
Commadore to pursue his Adventures upon the Coast of _Guiney_, whilst he
returned to the _West-Indies_, upon the like Design.

About the Middle of _June_, these Pyrates met with one Captain _Marston_,
between _Hispaniola_ and _Jamaica_, bound on a Voyage to _New-York_; from
whom they took all the wearing Apparel they could find, as also his Liquors
and Provision, and five of his Men, but did not touch his Cargo; two or
three other Vessels were also plundered by them, in this Cruise, out of
whom they stocked themselves with Provision and Men; among the rest, I
think, was the _Irwin_, Captain _Ross_, from _Cork_ in _Ireland_; but this
I won't be positive of, because they denied it themselves. This Ship had
600 Barrels of Beef aboard, besides other Provisions, and was taken off
_Martinico_, wherein Colonel _Doyly_ of _Montserrat_, and his Family were
Passengers. The Colonel was very much abused and wounded, for endeavouring
to save a poor Woman, that was also a Passenger, from the Insults of that
brutish Crew; and the Pyrates prevailing, twenty one of them forced the
poor Creature successively, afterwards broke her Back and flung her into
the Sea. I say, I will not be positive it was _Anstis_'s Crew that acted
this unheard of Violence and Cruelty, tho' the Circumstances of the Place,
the Time, the Force of the Vessel, and the Number of Men, do all concur,
and I can place the Villany no where else; but that such a Fact was done,
there is too much Evidence for it to be doubted of.

When they thought fit to put an End to this Cruize, they went into one of
the Islands to clean, which they effected without any Disturbance, and came
out again, and stretching away towards _Burmudas_, met with a stout Ship,
called the _Morning Star_, bound from _Guiney_ to _Carolina_; they made
Prize of her, and kept her for their own Use. In a Day or two, a Ship from
_Barbadoes_ bound to _New-York_, fell into their Hands, and taking out her
Guns and Tackle, mounted the _Morning Star_ with 32 Pieces of Cannon,
mann'd her with a 100 Men, and appointed one _John Fenn_ Captain; for the
Brigantine being of far less Force, the _Morning Star_ would have fallen to
_Anstis_, as elder Officer, yet he was so in Love with his own Vessel, (she
being an excellent Sailor,) that he made it his Choice to stay in her, and
let _Fenn_, who was, before, his Gunner, Command the great Ship.