When the Lieutenant came to _Bath-Town_, he made bold to seize in the
Governor's Store-House, the sixty Hogsheads of Sugar, and from honest Mr.
_Knight_, twenty; which it seems was their Dividend of the Plunder taken in
the _French_ Ship; the latter did not long survive this shameful Discovery,
for being apprehensive that he might be called to an Account for these
Trifles, fell sick with the Fright, and died in a few Days.

After the wounded Men were pretty well recover'd, the Lieutenant sailed
back to the Men of War in _James River_, in _Virginia_, with
_Black-beard_'s Head still hanging at the Bolt-sprit End, and fiveteen
Prisoners, thirteen of whom were hanged. It appearing upon Tryal, that one
of them, _viz._ _Samuel Odell_, was taken out of the trading Sloop, but the
Night before the Engagement. This poor Fellow was a little unlucky at his
first entering upon his new Trade, there appearing no less than 70 Wounds
upon him after the Action, notwithstanding which, he lived, and was cured
of them all. The other Person that escaped the Gallows, was one _Israel
Hands_, the Master of _Black-beard_'s Sloop, and formerly Captain of the
same, before the _Queen Ann's Revenge_ was lost in _Topsail_ Inlet.

The aforesaid _Hands_ happened not to be in the Fight, but was taken
afterwards ashore at _Bath-Town_, having been sometime before disabled by
_Black-beard_, in one of his savage Humours, after the following
Manner.--One Night drinking in his Cabin with _Hands_, the Pilot, and
another Man; _Black-beard_ without any Provocation privately draws out a
small Pair of Pistols, and cocks them under the Table, which being
perceived by the Man, he withdrew and went upon Deck, leaving _Hands_, the
Pilot, and the Captain together. When the Pistols were ready, he blew out
the Candle, and crossing his Hands, discharged them at his Company;
_Hands_, the Master, was shot thro' the Knee, and lam'd for Life; the other
Pistol did no Execution. --Being asked the meaning of this, he only
answered, by damning them, that _if he did not now and then kill one of
them, they would forget who he was._

_Hands_ being taken, was try'd and condemned, but just as he was about to
be executed, a Ship arrives at _Virginia_ with a Proclamation for
prolonging the Time of his Majesty's Pardon, to such of the Pyrates as
should surrender by a limited Time therein expressed: Notwithstanding the
Sentence, _Hands_ pleaded the Pardon, and was allowed the Benefit of it,
and is alive at this Time in London, begging his Bread.

Now that we have given some Account of _Teach_'s Life and Actions, it will
not be amiss, that we speak of his Beard, since it did not a little
contribute towards making his Name so terrible in those Parts.

_Plutarch_, and other grave Historians have taken Notice, that several
great Men amongst the _Romans_, took their Sir-Names from certain odd Marks
in their Countenances; as _Cicero_, from a Mark or Vetch on his Nose; so
our Heroe, Captain _Teach_, assumed the Cognomen of _Black-beard_, from
that large Quantity of Hair, which, like a frightful Meteor, covered his
whole Face, and frightened _America_ more than any Comet that has appeared
there a long Time.