But what was most barbarous, was a Custom they had when they took any Ship,
of enquiring of the Person on Board, concerning their Names and Country; if
any of them said he was a _Roman_, they fell down upon their Knees, as if
in a Fright at the Greatness of that Name, and begg'd Pardon for what they
had done, and imploring his Mercy, they used to perform the Offices of
Servants about his Person, and when they found they had deceived him into a
Belief of their being sincere, they hung out the Ladder of the Ship, and
coming with a shew of Courtesy, told him, he had his Liberty, desiring him
to walk out of the Ship, and this in the Middle of the Sea, and when they
observed him in Surprize, as was natural, they used to throw him overboard
with mighty shouts of Laughter; so wanton they were in their Cruelty.

Thus, while _Rome_ was Mistress oft he World, she suffered Insults and
Affronts, almost at her Gates, from these powerful Robbers; but what for a
while made Faction cease, and roused the Genius of that People, never used
to suffer Wrongs from a fair Enemy, was an excessive Scarcity of Provisions
in _Rome_, occasioned by all the Ships loaden with Corn and Provisions from
_Sicily_, _Corsica_, and other Places, being intercepted and taken by these
Pyrates, insomuch that they were almost reduced to a Famine: Upon this,
_Pompey_ the _Great_ was immediately appointed General to manage this War;
five hundered Ships were immediately fitted out, he had fourteen Senators,
Men of Experience in the War, for his Vice-Admirals; and so considerable an
Enemy, were these Ruffians become, that no less than an Army of a hundred
thousand Foot, and five thousand Horse was appointed to invade them by
Land; but it happened very luckily for _Rome_, that _Pompey_ sail'd out
before the Pyrate had Intelligence of a Design against them, so that their
Ships were scattered all over the _Mediterranean_, like Bees gone out from
a Hive, some one Way, some another, to bring Home their Lading; _Pompey_
divided his Fleet into thirteen Squadrons, to whom he appointed their
several Stations, so that great Numbers of the Pyrates fell into their
Hands, Ship by Ship, without any Loss; forty Days he passed in scouring the
_Mediterranean_, some of the Fleet cruizing along the Coast of _Africk_,
some about the Islands, and some upon the Italian Coasts, so that often
those Pyrates who were flying from one Squadron, fell in with another;
however, some of them escaped, and these making directly to _Cilicia_, and
acquainting their Confederates on Shore with what had happened, they
appointed a Rendezvous of all the Ships that had escaped at the Port of
_Coracesium_, in the same Country. _Pompey_ finding the _Mediterranean_
quite clear, appointed a Meeting of all his Fleet at the Haven of
_Brundusium_, and from thence sailing round into the _Adriatick_, he went
directly to attack these Pyrates in their Hives; as soon as he came near
the _Coracesium_ in _Cilicia_, where the Remainder of the Pyrates now lay,
they had the Hardiness to come and give him Battle, but the Genius of old
_Rome_ prevailed, and the Pyrates received an entire Overthrow, being all
either taken or destroyed; but as they made many strong Fortresses upon the
Sea Coast, and built Castles and strong Holds up the Country, about the
Foot of Mount _Taurus_, he was obliged to besiege them with his Army; some
Places he took by Storm, others surrendered to his Mercy, to whom he gave
their Lives, and at length he made an entire Conquest.