The latter End of _May_ 1718, they sail'd, and being in want of Provisions,
they beat up for the Windward Islands, and met with a _Spanish_ Sloop bound
from _Porto Rico_ to the _Havana_, which they burnt, and stowed the
_Spaniards_ in a Boat, and left them to get to the Island, by the Light of
their Vessel. But steering between St. _Christopher_'s and _Anguilla_, they
fell in with a Brigantine and a Sloop, with the Cargo they wanted; from
whom they got Provisions for Sea-Store.

Sometime after this, standing to the Northward, in the Track the
_Old-England_ Ships take, in their Voyage to the _American_ Colonies, they
took several Ships and Vessels, which they plundered of what they thought
fit, and let them pass.

The latter End of _August, Vane_, with his Consort _Yeats_, came off
_South-Carolina_, and took a Ship belonging to _Ipswich_, one _Coggershall_
Commander, laden with Logwood, which was thought convenient enough for
their own Business, and therefore ordered their Prisoners to work, and
throw all the Lading over-board; but when they had more than half cleared
the Ship, the Whim changed, and then they would not have her; so
_Coggershall_ had his Ship again, and he was suffered to pursue his Voyage
home. In this Cruize the Rover took several other Ships and Vessels,
particularly a Sloop from _Barbadoes, Dill_ Master; a small Ship from
_Antegoa, Cock_ Master; a Sloop belonging to _Curacco, Richards_ Master;
and a large Brigantine, Captain _Thompson_, from _Guiney_, with ninety odd
Negroes aboard. The Pyrates plundered them all and let them go, putting the
Negroes out of the Brigantine aboard of _Yeat_'s Vessel, by which Means
they came back again to the right Owners.

For Captain _Vane_, having always treated his Consort with very little
Respect, assuming a Superiority over _Yeats_ and his small Crew, and
regarding the Vessel but as a Tender to his own; gave them a Disgust, who
thought themselves as good Pyrates, and as great Rogues as the best of
them; so they caball'd together, and resolved to take the first Opportunity
to leave the Company; and accept of his Majesty's Pardon, or set up for
themselves, either of which they thought more honourable than to be
Servants to the former; and the putting aboard so many Negroes, where they
found so few Hands to take Care of them, still aggravated the Matter,
though they thought fit to conceal or stifle their Resentments at that
Time.

A Day or two afterwards, the Pyrates lying off at Anchor, _Yeats_ in the
Evening slipp'd his Cable, and put his Vessel under Sail, standing into the
Shore; which, when _Vane_ saw, he was highly provoked, and got his Sloop
under Sail to chase his Consort, who, he plainly perceived, had a Mind to
have no further Affairs with him: _Vane_'s Brigantine sailing best, he
gained Ground of _Yeats_, and would certainly have come up with him, had he
had a little longer Run for it; but just as he got over the Bar, when
_Vane_ came within Gun-shot of him, he fired a Broadside at his old Friend,
(which did him no Damage,) and so took his Leave.