This Advice weigh'd with them, and they got under Sail, having stay'd only
from _Thursday_ to _Saturday_ Night, and at Sea voted for the Island of
_Anna Bona_; but the Winds hanging out of the Way, crossed their Purpose,
and brought them to Cape _Lopez_, where I shall leave them for their
approaching Fate, and relate some further Particulars of his Majesty's Ship
the _Swallow, viz._ where it was she had spent her Time, during the
Mischief that was done, and by what Means unable to prevent it; what also
was the Intelligence she received, and the Measures thereon formed, that at
last brought two such Strangers as Mr _Roberts_ and Capt. _Ogle_, to meet
in so remote a Corner of the World.

The _Swallow_ and _Weymouth_ left _Sierraleon, May_ 28, where, I have
already taken Notice, _Roberts_ arrived about a Month after, and doubtless
learn'd the Intent of their Voyage, and cleaning on the Coast; which made
him set down with more Security to his Diversion, and furnish him with such
Intimations, as made his first Range down the Coast in _August_ following,
more prosperous; the _Swallow_ and _Weymouth_ being then at the Port of
_Princes_ a cleaning.

Their Stay at _Princes_ was from _July_ 28 to _Sept._ 20, 1721, where, by a
Fatality, common to the Irregularities of Seamen, (who cannot in such Cases
be kept under due Restraints,) they buried 100 Men in three Weeks time, and
reduced the Remainder of the Ships Companies into so sickly a State, that
it was with Difficulty they brought them to sail; and this Misfortune was
probably the Ruin of _Roberts_, for it prevented the Men of War's going
back to _Sierraleon_, as it was intended, there being a Necessity of
leaving his Majesty's Ship _Weymouth_ (in much the worse Condition of the
two) under the Guns of Cape _Corso_, to impress Men, being unable at this
Time, either to hand the Sails, or weigh her Anchor; and _Roberts_ being
ignorant of the Occasion or Alteration of the first Design, fell into the
Mouth of Danger, when he thought himself the farthest from it; for the Men
of War not endeavouring to attain further to Windward (when they came from
_Princes_) then to secure Cape _Corso_ Road under their Lee, they luckily
hovered in the Track he had took.