The 17th of _November_, 1718, the Lieutenant sail'd from _Kicquetan_, in
_James_ River in _Virginia_, and, the 21st in the Evening, came to the
Mouth of _Okerecock_ Inlet, where he got Sight of the Pyrate. This
Expedition was made with all imaginable Secrecy, and the Officer manag'd
with all the Prudence that was necessary, stopping all Boats and Vessels he
met with, in the River, from going up, and thereby preventing any
Intelligence from reaching _Black-Beard_, and receiving at the same time an
Account from them all, of the Place where the Pyrate was lurking; but
notwithstanding this Caution, _Black-beard_ had Information of the Design,
from his Excellency of the Province; and his Secretary, Mr. _Knight_, wrote
him a Letter, particularly concerning it, intimating, _That he had sent him
four of his Men, which were all he could meet with, in or about Town, and
so bid him be upon his Guard._ These Men belonged to _Black-beard_, and
were sent from _Bath-Town_ to _Okerecock_ Inlet, where the Sloop lay, which
is about 20 Leagues.

_Black-beard_ had heard several Reports, which happened not to be true, and
so gave the less Credit to this, nor was he convinced till he saw the
Sloops: Whereupon he put his Vessel in a Posture of Defence; he had no more
than twenty five Men on Board, tho' he gave out to all the Vessels he spoke
with, that he had 40. When he had prepared for Battle, he set down and
spent the Night in drinking with the Master of a trading Sloop, who, 'twas
thought, had more Business with _Teach_, than he should have had.

Lieutenant _Maynard_ came to an Anchor, for the Place being shoal, and the
Channel intricate, there was no getting in, where _Teach_ lay, that Night;
but in the Morning he weighed, and sent his Boat a-head of the Sloops to
sound; and coming within Gun-Shot of the Pyrate, received his Fire;
whereupon _Maynard_ hoisted the King's Colours, and stood directly towards
him, with the best Way that his Sails and Oars could made. _Black-beard_
cut his Cable, and endeavoured to make a running Fight, keeping a continual
Fire at his Enemies, with his Guns; Mr. _Maynard_ not having any, kept a
constant Fire with small Arms, while some of his Men laboured at their
Oars. In a little Time _Teach_'s Sloop ran a-ground, and Mr. _Maynard_'s
drawing more Water than that of the Pyrate, he could not come near him; so
he anchored within half Gun-Shot of the Enemy, and, in order to lighten his
Vessel, that he might run him aboard, the Lieutenant ordered all his
Ballast to be thrown over-board, and all the Water to be staved, and then
weigh'd and stood for him; upon which _Black-beard_ hail'd him in this rude
Manner: _Damn you for Villains, who are you? And, from whence came you?_
The Lieutenant made him Answer, _You may see by our Colours we are no
Pyrates._ _Black-beard_ bid him send his Boat on Board, that he might see
who he was; but Mr. _Maynard_ reply'd thus; _I cannot spare my Boat, but I
will come aboard of you as soon as I can, with my Sloop._ Upon this,
_Black-beard_ took a Glass of Liquor, and drank to him with these Words:
_Damnation seize my Soul if I give you Quarters, or take any from you._ In
Answer to which, Mr. _Maynard_ told him, _That he expected no Quarters from
him, nor should he give him any._