Besides these, they send off great Quantities of Brasil Wood, and Whale
Oyl, some Gums and Parrots, the latter are different from the _African_ in
Colour and Bigness, for as they are blue and larger, these are green and
smaller; and the Females of them ever retain the wild Note, and cannot be
brought to talk.

In lieu of this Produce, the _Portugueze_, once every Year by their Fleet
from _Lisbon_, import all manner of European Commodities; and whoever is
unable or negligent of supplying himself at that Season, buys at a very
advanced Rate, before the Return of another.

To transport Passengers, Slaves, or Merchandize from one Settlement to
another, or in Fishing; they make use of Bark-Logs, by the _Brasilians_
called _Jingadahs_: They are made of four Pieces of Timber (the two
outermost longest) pinned and fastened together, and sharpened at the Ends:
Towards each Extremity a Stool is fixed to sit on for paddling, or holding
by, when the Agitation is more than ordinary; with these odd sort of
Engines, continually washed over by the Water, do these People, with a
little triangular Sail spreeted about the Middle of it, venture out of
Sight of Land, and along the Coasts for many Leagues, in any sort of
Weather; and if they overset with a Squall (which is not uncommon) they
swim and presently turn it up right again.

The Natives are of the darkest Copper Colour, with thin Hair, of a square
strong make, and muscular; but not so well looking as the Wooley
Generation: They acquiesce patiently to the _Portugueze_ Government, who
use them much more humanly and Christian-like than the _Dutch_ did, and by
that Means have extended Quietness and Peace, as well as their Possessions,
three or four hundred Miles into the Country. A Country abounding with fine
Pastures and numerous Herds of Cattle, and yields a vast Increase from
every thing that is sown: Hence they bring down to us Parrots, small
Monkies, Armadillos and Sanguins, and I have been assured, they have, (far
In-land,) a Serpent of a vast Magnitude, called _Siboya_, able, they say,
to swallow a whole Sheep; I have seen my self here the Skin of another
Specie full six Yards long, and therefore think the Story not improbable.

The Harbour of _Pernambuca_ is, perhaps, singular, it is made of a Ledge of
Rocks, half a Cables length from the Main, and but little above the Surface
of the Water, running at that equal Distance and Heighth several Leagues,
towards Cape _Augustine_, a Harbour running between them capable of
receiving Ships of the greatest Burthen: The Northermost End of this Wall
of Rock, is higher than any Part of the contiguous Line, on which a little
Fort is built, commanding the Passage either of Boat or Ship, as they come
over the Bar into the Harbour: On the Starboard Side, (_i. e._ the Main)
after you have entered a little way, stands another Fort (a _Pentagon_)
that would prove of small Account, I imagine, against a few disciplined
Men; and yet in these consists all their Strength and Security, either for
the Harbour or Town: They have begun indeed a Wall, since their removing
from _Olinda_, designed to surround the latter; but the slow Progress they
make in raising it, leaves Room to suspect 'twill be a long time in
finishing.