The Story of two Troopers marrying each other, made a great Noise, so that
several Officers were drawn by Curiosity to assist at the Ceremony, and
they agreed among themselves that every one of them should make a small
Present to the Bride, towards House-keeping, in Consideration of her having
been their fellow Soldier. Thus being set up, they seemed to have a Desire
of quitting the Service, and settling in the World; the Adventure of their
Love and Marriage had gained them so much Favour, that they easily obtained
their Discharge, and they immediately set up an Eating House or Ordinary,
which was the Sign of the _Three Horse-Shoes_, near the Castle of _Breda_,
where they soon run into a good Trade, a great many Officers eating with
them constantly.

But this Happiness lasted not long, for the Husband soon died, and the
Peace of _Reswick_ being concluded, there was no Resort of Officers to
_Breda_, as usual; so that the Widow having little or no Trade, was forced
to give up House-keeping, and her Substance being by Degrees quite spent,
she again assumes her Man's Apparel, and going into _Holland_, there takes
on in a Regiment of Foot, quarter'd in one of the Frontier Towns: Here she
did not remain long, there was no likelihood of Preferment in Time of
Peace, therefore she took a Resolution of seeking her Fortune another Way;
and withdrawing from the Regiment, ships herself on Board of a Vessel bound
for the _West-Indies_.

It happen'd this Ship was taken by _English_ Pyrates, and _Mary Read_ was
the only _English_ Person on Board, they kept her amongst them, and having
plundered the Ship, let it go again; after following this Trade for some
Time, the King's Proclamation came out, and was publish'd in all Parts of
the _West-Indies_, for pardoning such Pyrates, who should voluntarily
surrender themselves by a certain Day therein mentioned. The Crew of _Mary
Read_ took the Benefit of this Proclamation, and having surrender'd, liv'd
quietly on Shore; but Money beginning to grow short, and hearing that
Captain _Woods Rogers_, Governor of the Island of _Providence_, was fitting
out some Privateers to cruise against the _Spaniards_, she with several
others embark'd for that Island, in order to go upon the privateering
Account, being resolved to make her Fortune one way or other.

These Privateers were no sooner sail'd out, but the Crews of some of them,
who had been pardoned, rose against their Commanders, and turned themselves
to their old Trade: In this Number was _Mary Read_. It is true, she often
declared, that the Life of a Pyrate was what she always abhor'd, and went
into it only upon Compulsion, both this Time, and before, intending to quit
it, whenever a fair Opportunity should offer it self; yet some of the
Evidence against her, upon her Tryal, who were forced Men, and had sailed
with her, deposed upon Oath, that in Times of Action, no Person amongst
them were more resolute, or ready to Board or undertake any Thing that was
hazardous, as she and _Anne Bonny_; and particularly at the Time they were
attack'd and taken, when they came to close Quarters, none kept the Deck
except _Mary Read_ and _Anne Bonny_, and one more; upon which, she, _Mary
Read_, called to those under Deck, to come up and fight like Men, and
finding they did not stir, fired her Arms down the Hold amongst them,
killing one, and wounding others.