By such Arts as these, in the Space of a few Years, their Body was greatly
increased, they then began to separate themselves, and remove at a greater
Distance from one another, for the Convenience of more Ground, and were
divided like Jews, into Tribes, each carrying with him his Wives and
Children, (of which, by this Time they had a large Family,) as also their
Quota of Dependants and Followers; and if Power and Command be the Thing
which distinguish a Prince, these Ruffians had all the Marks of Royalty
about them, nay more, they had the very Fears which commonly disturb
Tyrants, as may be seen by the extream Caution they took in fortifying the
Places where they dwelt.

In this Plan of Fortification they imitated one another, their Dwellings
were rather Citadels than Houses; they made Choice of a Place overgrown
with Wood, and scituate near a Water; they raised a Rampart or high Ditch
round it, so strait and high, that it was impossible to climb it, and
especially by those who had not the Use of scaling Ladders: Over this Ditch
there was one Passage into the Wood; the Dwelling, which was a Hut, was
built in that Part of the Wood which the Prince, who inhabited it, thought
fit, but so covered that it could not be seen till you came at it; but the
greatest Cunning lay in the Passage which lead to the Hut, which was so
narrow, that no more than one Person could go a Breast, and contrived in so
intricate a Manner, that it was a perfect Maze or Labyrinth, it being round
and round, with several little cross Ways, so that a Person that was not
well acquainted with the Way, might walk several Hours round and cross
these Ways without being able to find the Hut; moreover all along the Sides
of these narrow Paths, certain large Thorns which grew upon a Tree in that
Country, were struck into the Ground with their Points uppermost, and the
Path it self being made crooked and serpentine, if a Man should attempt to
come near the Hut at Night, he would certainly have struck upon these
Thorns, tho' he had been provided with that Clue which _Ariadne_ gave to
_Theseus_ when he entered the Cave of the _Minataur_.

Thus Tyrant like they lived, fearing and feared by all; and in this
Scituation they were found by Captain _Woods Rogers_, when he went to
_Madagascar_, in the _Delicia_, a Ship of forty Guns, with a Design of
buying Slaves in order to sell to the _Dutch_ at _Batavia_ or
_New-Holland_: He happened to touch upon a Part of the Island, where no
Ship had been seen for seven or eight Years before, where he met with some
of the Pyrates, at which Time, they had been upon the Island above 25
Years, having a large motly Generation of Children and Grand-Children
descended from them, there being about that Time, eleven of them remaining
alive.

Upon their first seeing a Ship of this Force and Burthen, they supposed it
to be a Man of War sent to take them; they therefore lurked within their
Fastnesses, but when some from the Ship came on Shore, without any shew of
Hostility, and offering to trade with the Negroes, they ventured to come
out of their Holes, attended like Princes; and since they actually are
Kings _De Facto_, which is a kind of a Right, we ought to speak of them as
such.