After the Death of Captain _Skinner, Davis_ pretended that he was mightily
sollicited by _England_ to engage with him; but that he resolutely
answered, he would sooner be shot to Death than sign the Pyrates Articles.
Upon which, _England_, pleased with his Bravery, sent him and the rest of
the Men again on Board the Snow, appointing him Captain of her, in the Room
of _Skinner_, commanding him to pursue his Voyage. He also gave him a
written Paper sealed up, with Orders to open it when he should come into a
certain Latitude, and at the Peril of his Life follow the Orders therein
set down. This was an Air of Grandeur like what Princes practice to their
Admirals and Generals.--It was punctually complied with by _Davis_, who
read it to the Ship's Company; it contained no less than a generous Deed of
Gift of the Ship and Cargoe, to _Davis_ and the Crew, ordering him to go to
_Brasil_ and dispose of the Lading to the best Advantage, and to make a
fair and equal Dividend with the rest.

_Davis_ proposed to the Crew, whether they were willing to follow their
Directions, but to his great Surprize, found the Majority of them
altogether averse to it, wherefore in a Rage, he bad them be damn'd, and go
where they would. They knew that Part of their Cargoe was consigned to
certain Merchants at _Barbadoes_, wherefore they steered for that Island.
When they arrived, they related to these Merchants the unfortunate Death of
_Skinner_, and the Proposal which had been made to them by _Davis_; upon
which _Davis_ was seized and committed to Prison, where he was kept three
Months; however, as he had been in no Act of Pyracy, he was discharged
without being brought to any Tryal, yet he could not expect any Employment
there; wherefore knowing that the Island of _Providence_ was a kind of
Rendevouz of Pyrates, he was resolved to make one amongst them, if
possible, and to that Purpose, found Means of shipping himself for that
Island; but he was again disappointed, for when he arrived there, the
Pyrates had newly surrendered to Captain _Woods Rogers_, and accepted of
the Act of Grace, which he had just brought from _England_.

However, _Davis_ was not long out of Business, for Captain _Rogers_ having
fitted out two Sloops for Trade, one called the _Buck_, the other the
_Mumvil Trader; Davis_ found an Employment on Board of one of them; the
Lading of these Sloops was of considerable Value, consisting of _European_
Goods, in order to be exchanged with the _French_ and _Spaniards_; and many
of the Hands on Board of them, were the Pyrates lately come in upon the
late Act of Grace. The first Place they touched at, was the Island of
_Martinico_, belonging to the _French_, where _Davis_ having conspired with
some others, rise in the Night, secured the Master and seized the Sloop; as
soon as this was done, they called to the other Sloop, which lay a little
Way from them, among whom they knew there were a great many Hands ripe for
Rebellion, and ordered them to come on Board of them; they did so, and the
greatest Part of them agreed to join with _Davis_; those who were otherwise
inclined, were sent back on Board the _Mumvil_ Sloop, to go where they
pleased, _Davis_ having first taken out of her, every Thing which he
thought might be of Use.