You being a Gentleman that have had the Advantage of a _liberal Education_,
and being generally esteemed a Man of _Letters_, I believe it will be
needless for me to explain to you the Nature of _Repentance_ and _Faith_ in
Christ, they being so fully and so often mentioned in the Scriptures, that
you cannot but know them. And therefore, perhaps, for that Reason it might
be thought by some improper for me to have said so much to you, as I have
already upon this Occasion; neither should I have done it, but that
considering the Course of your Life and Actions, I have just Reason to
fear, that the Principles of Religion that had been instilled into you by
your _Education_, have been at least corrupted, if not entirely defaced, by
the _Scepticism_ and _Infidelity_ of this wicked Age; and that what Time
you allowed for Study, was rather applied to the _Polite Literature_, and
the vain _Philosophy_ of the Times, than a serious Search after the _Law_
and _Will_ of God, as revealed unto us in the Holy _Scriptures_: For _had
your Delight been in the Law of the Lord, and that you had meditated
therein Day and Night_, Psal. 1. 2. you would then have found that God's
_Word was a Lamp unto your Feet, and a Light to your Path_, Psal. 119. 105.
and that you would account all other Knowledge but _Loss_, in Comparison of
_the Excellency of the Knowledge of Christ Jesus_, Phil. 3. 8. _who to them
that are called is the Power of God, and the Wisdom of God_, 1 Cor. 1. 24.
_even the hidden Wisdom which God ordained before the World_, Chap. 2. 7.

You would then have esteemed the _Scriptures_ as the _Great Charter_ of
Heaven, and which delivered to us not only the most perfect _Laws_ and
_Rules_ of Life, but also discovered to us the Acts of _Pardon_ from God,
wherein they have offended those righteous Laws: For in them only is to be
found the great _Mystery_ of fallen Man's _Redemption, which the Angels
desire to look into_, 1 Pet. 1. 12.

And they would have taught you that _Sin_ is the debasing of _Human
Nature_, as being a _Derivation_ from that _Purity, Rectitude_, and
_Holiness_, in which God created us, and that _Virtue_ and _Religion_, and
walking by the Laws of God, were altogether preferable to the Ways of _Sin_
and _Satan_; for that the _Ways_ of Virtue are _Ways of Pleasantness, and
all their Paths are Peace_, Prov. 3. 17.

But what you could not learn from God's Word, by reason of your
_carelesly_, or but _superficially_ considering the same, I hope the Course
of his _Providence_, and the present _Afflictions_ that he hath laid upon
you, hath now convinced you of the same: For however in your seeming
Prosperity you might make a _Mock at your Sins_ Prov. 3. 17. yet now that
you see that God's Hand hath reached you, and brought you to publick
Justice, I hope your present unhappy Circumstances hath made you seriously
reflect upon your past Actions and Course of Life; and that you are now
sensible of the Greatness of your Sins, and that you find the Burden of
them is intolerable.