They all got aboard about _Christmas_, observing neither Times nor Seasons,
for perpetrating their villainous Actions, and sailed towards the Bay of
_Honduras_; but stopping at the _Grand Caimanes_ for Water, they met with a
small Vessel with 13 Hands, in the same honourable Employment with
themselves; the Captain of this Gang was one _Edward Lowe_, whom we shall
particularly discourse of in a Chapter by it self: _Lowther_ received them
as Friends, and treated them with all imaginable Respect, inviting them, as
they were few in Number, and in no Condition to pursue the Account, (as
they called it) to join their Strength together, which on the Consideration
aforesaid, was accepted of, _Lowther_ still continuing Commander, and
_Lowe_ was made Lieutenant: The Vessel the new Pyrates came out of, they
sunk, and the Confederates proceed on the Voyage as _Lowther_ before
intended.

The 10th of _January_, the Pyrates came into the Bay, and fell upon a Ship
of 200 Tun, called the _Greyhound, Benjamin Edwards_ Commander, belonging
to _Boston. Lowther_ hoisted his pyratical Colours, and fired a Gun for the
_Greyhound_ to bring to, which she refusing, the _Happy Delivery_ (the Name
of the Pyrate) edg'd down, and gave her a Broadside, which was returned by
Captain _Edwards_ very bravely, and the Engagement held for an Hour; but
Captain _Edwards_, finding the Pyrate too strong for him, and fearing the
Consequence of too obstinate a Resistance against those lawless Fellows,
ordered his Ensign to be struck. The Pyrates Boat came aboard, and not only
rifled the Ship, but whipp'd, beat, and cut the Men in a cruel Manner,
turned them aboard their own Ship, and then set Fire to their's.

In cruising about the Bay, they met and took several other Vessels without
any Resistance, _viz._ two Brigantines of _Boston_ in _New-England_, one of
which they burnt, and sunk the other; a Sloop belonging to _Connecticut_,
Captain _Airs_, which they also burnt; a Sloop of _Jamaica_, Captain
_Hamilton_, they took for their own Use; a Sloop of _Virginia_ they
unladed, and was so generous as to give her back to the Master that own'd
her. They took a Sloop of 100 Ton, belonging to _Rhode Island_, which they
were pleased to keep, and mount with eight Carriage, and ten Swivel Guns.

With this little Fleet, _viz._ Admiral _Lowther_, in the _Happy Delivery_;
Captain _Low_, in the _Rhode Island_ Sloop; Captain _Harris_, (who was
second Mate in the _Greyhound_ when taken,) in _Hamilton_'s Sloop, and the
little Sloop formerly mentioned, serving as a Tender; I say, with this
Fleet the Pyrates left the Bay, and came to _Port Mayo_ in the Gulph of
_Matique_, and there made Preparations to careen; they carried ashore all
their Sails, and made Tents by the Water-Side, wherein they laid their
Plunder, Stores, _&c._ and fell to work; and at the Time that the Ships
were upon the Heel, and the good Folks employ'd in heaving down, scrubing,
tallowing, and so forth; of a sudden came down a considerable Body of the
Natives, and attack'd the Pyrates unprepared. As they were in no Condition
to defend themselves, they fled to their Sloops, leaving them Masters of
the Field and the Spoil thereof, which was of great Value, and set Fire to
the _Happy Delivery_, their capital Ship.