In the Latitude of _Deseada_, one of the Islands, they took two Sloops,
which supply'd them with Provisions and other Necessaries; and a few Days
afterwards, took a Brigantine belonging to _Rhode Island_, and then
proceeded to _Barbadoes_, off of which Island, they fell in with a
_Bristol_ Ship of 10 Guns, in her Voyage out, from whom they took abundance
of Cloaths, some Money, twenty five Bales of Goods, five Barrels of Powder,
a Cable, Hawser, 10 Casks of Oatmeal, six Casks of Beef, and several other
Goods, besides five of their Men; and after they had detained her three
Days, let her go; who being bound for the abovesaid Island, she acquainted
the Governor with what had happened, as soon as she arrived.

Whereupon a _Bristol_ Galley that lay in the Harbour, was ordered to be
fitted out with all imaginable Expedition, of 20 Guns, and 80 Men, there
being then no Man of War upon that Station, and also a Sloop with 10 Guns,
and 40 Men: The Galley was commanded by one Captain _Rogers_, of _Bristol_,
and the Sloop by Captain _Graves_, of that Island, and Captain _Rogers_ by
a Commission from the Governor, was appointed Commadore.

The second Day after _Rogers_ sailed out of the Harbour, he was discovered
by _Roberts_, who knowing nothing of their Design, gave them Chase: The
_Barbadoes_ Ships kept an easy sail till the Pyrates came up with them, and
then _Roberts_ gave them a Gun, expecting they would have immediately
struck to his pyratical Flag, but instead thereof, he was forced to receive
the Fire of a Broadside, with three Huzzas at the same Time; so that an
Engagement ensued, but _Roberts_ being hardly put to it, was obliged to
crowd all the Sail the Sloop would bear, to get off: The Galley sailing
pretty well, kept Company for a long while, keeping a constant Fire, which
gail'd the Pyrate; however, at length by throwing over their Guns, and
other heavy Goods, and thereby light'ning the Vessel, they, with much ado,
got clear; but _Roberts_ could never endure a _Barbadoes_ Man afterwards,
and when any Ships belonging to that Island fell in his Way, he was more
particularly severe to them than others.

Captain _Roberts_ sailed in the Sloop to the Island of _Dominico_, where he
watered, and got Provisions of the Inhabitants, to whom he gave Goods in
Exchange. At this Place he met with 13 _Englishmen_, who had been set
ashore by a _French Guard de la Coste_, belonging to _Martinico_, taken out
of two _New-England_ Ships, that had been seiz'd, as Prize, by the said
_French_ Sloop: The Men willingly entered with the Pyrates, and it proved a
seasonable Recruit.