On the same Day also, they took the _Flushing_, a _Dutch_ Ship, robbed her
of Masts, Yards and Stores, and then cut down her Fore-Mast; but what sat
as heavily as any thing with the _Skipper_, was, their taking some fine
Sausages he had on Board, of his Wife's making, and stringing them in a
ludicrous Manner, round their Necks, till they had sufficiently shew'd
their Contempt of them, and then threw them into the Sea. Others chopp'd
the Heads of his Fowls off, to be dressed for their Supper, and courteously
invited the Landlord, provided he would find Liquor. It was a melancholly
Request to the Man, but it must be comply'd with, and he was obliged, as
they grew drunk, to sit quietly, and hear them sing _French_ and _Spanish_
Songs out of his _Dutch_ Prayer-Books, with other Prophaness, that he (tho'
a _Dutch_ Man) stood amazed at.

In chasing too near in, they alarmed the Coast, and Expresses were sent to
the _English_ and _Dutch_ Factories, giving an Account of it: They were
sensible of this Error immediately, and because they would make the best of
a bad Market, resolved to keep out of sight of Land, and lose the Prizes
they might expect between that and _Whydah_, to make the more sure of that
Port, where commonly is the best Booty; all Nations trading thither,
especially _Portuguese_, who purchase chiefly with Gold, the Idol their
Hearts were bent upon. And notwithstanding this unlikely Course, they met
and took several Ships between _Axim_ and that Place; the circumstantial
Stories of which, and the pannick Terrors they struck into his Majesty's
Subjects, being tedious and unnecessary to relate, I shall pass by, and
come to their Arrival in that Road.

They came to _Whydah_ with a St. _George_'s Ensign, a black Silk Flag
flying at their Mizen-Peek, and a Jack and Pendant of the same: The Flag
had a Death in it, with an Hour-Glass in one Hand, and cross Bones in the
other, a Dart by it, and underneath a Heart dropping three Drops of
Blood.--The Jack had a Man pourtray'd in it, with a flaming Sword in his
Hand, and standing on two Skulls, subscribed _A B H_ and _A M H i. e._ a
_Barbadian_'s and a _Martinican_'s Head, as has been before taken Notice
of. Here they found eleven Sail in the Road, _English, French_ and
_Portuguese_; the _French_ were three stout Ships of 30 Guns, and upwards
of 100 Men each, yet when _Roberts_ came to Fire, they, with the other
Ships, immediately struck their Colours and surrendred to his Mercy. One
Reason, it must be confess'd, of his easy Victory, was, the Commanders and
a good Part of the Men being ashore, according to the Custom of the Place,
to receive the Cargoes, and return the Slaves, they being obliged to watch
the Seasons for it, which otherwise, in so dangerous a Sea as here, would
be impracticable. These all, except the _Porcupine_, ransomed with him for
eight Pound of Gold-Dust, a Ship, not without the trouble of some Letters
passing and repassing from the Shore, before they could settle it; and
notwithstanding the Agreement and Payment, they took away one of the
_French_ Ships, tho' with a Promise to return her, if they found she did
not sail well, taking with them several of her Men for that End.