When _Black-beard_ lost his Ship at _Topsail_ Inlet, and surrendered to the
King's Proclamation, _Bonnet_ reassumed the Command of his own Sloop,
_Revenge_, goes directly away to _Bath-Town_ in _North-Carolina_,
surrenders likewise to the King's Pardon, and receives a Certificate. The
War was now broke out between the _Tripple_ Allies and _Spain_; so Major
_Bonnet_ gets a Clearence for his Sloop at _North-Carlina_, to go to the
Island of St. _Thomas_, with a Design (at least it was pretended so) to get
the Emperor's Commission, to go a Privateering upon the _Spaniards_. When
_Bonnet_ came back to _Topsail_ Inlet, he found that _Teach_ and his Gang
were gone, and that they had taken all the Money, small Arms and Effects of
Value out of the great Ship, and set ashore on a small sandy Island above a
League from the Main, seventeen Men, no doubt with a Design they should
perish, there being no Inhabitant, or Provisions to subsist withal, nor any
Boat or Materials to build or make any kind of Launch or Vessel, to escape
from that desolate Place: They remained there two Nights and one Day,
without Subsistance, or the least Prospect of any, expecting nothing else
but a lingering Death; when to their inexpressable Comfort, they saw
Redemption at Hand; for Major _Bonnet_ happening to get Intelligence of
their being there, by two of the Pyrates who had escaped _Teach_'s Cruelty,
and had got to a poor little Village at the upper End of the Harbour, sent
his Boat to make Discovery of the Truth of the Matter, which the poor
Wretches seeing, made a signal to them, and they were all brought on Board
_Bonnet_'s Sloop.

Major _Bonnet_ told all his Company, that he would take a Commission to go
against the _Spaniards_, and to that End, was going to St. _Thomas_'s
therefore if they would go with him, they should be welcome; whereupon they
all consented, but as the Sloop was preparing to sail, a Bom-Boat, that
brought Apples and Sider to sell to the Sloop's Men, informed them, that
Captain _Teach_ lay at _Ocricock_ Inlet, with only 18 or 20 Hands.
_Bonnet_, who bore him a mortal Hatred for some Insults offered him, went
immediately in pursuit of _Black-beard_, but it happened too late, for he
missed of him there, and after four Days Cruize, hearing no farther News of
him, they steered their Course towards _Virginia_.

In the Month of _July_, these Adventurers came off the Capes, and meeting
with a Pink with a Stock of Provisions on Board, which they happened to be
in Want of, they took out of her ten or twelve Barrels of Pork, and about
400 Weight of Bread; but because they would not have this set down to the
Account of Pyracy, they gave them eight or ten Casks of Rice, and an old
Cable, in lieu thereof.