They are able to cure and export about 100000 Quintals (100 Weight each) of
Fish, annually, which returns to _England_ in Money, or the necessary
Commodities of _Portugal, Spain_ and _Italy._ As it therefore expends
abundance of Rum, Molossus and Sugar, the Product of our _West-India_
Colonies, and employs a Number of Fishermen from home every Season, by
whose Industry and Labour only this Fish is purchased, it may very well be
reckon'd an advantagious Branch of Trade.

But the present Design of this Digression being not to give an exact
Description of the Country or Fishery; but rather how it accidentally
contributes to raise, or support the Pyrates already rais'd, I shall
observe,

First, That our West Country Fishing-Ships, _viz._ from _Topsham,
Barnstable_ and _Bristol_, who chiefly attend the Fishing Seasons,
transport over a considerable Number of poor Fellows every Summer, whom
they engage at low Wages, and are by their Terms to pay for Passage back to
_England._ When the _Newfoundland_ Ships left that Country, towards Winter,
in the Year 1720, these Passengers muster'd 1100, who, during the Season of
Business, (the Hardness of their Labour, and Chilness of the Nights,
pinching them very much) are mostly fond of drinking Black Strap, (a strong
Liquor used there, and made from Rum, Molossus, and Chowder Beer;) by this
the Majority of them out-run the Constable, and then are necessitated to
come under hard Articles of Servitude for their Maintenance in the Winter;
no ordinary Charge, indeed, when the Barrenness of the Country is
consider'd, and the Stock of Provision laid in, happen to fall short, in
Proportion to the Computation made of the People remaining there the
Winter, which are generally about 17 or 1800. The Masters residing there
think Advantages taken on their Necessities, no more than a just and lawful
Gain; and either bind such for the next Summer's Service, or sell their
Provisions out to them at extravagant Rates; Bread from 15s. to 50,
immediately at the departing of the Ships, and so of other sorts of Food in
Proportion; wherefore not being able to subsist themselves, or in any
likely Way of clearing the Reckoning to the Masters, they sometimes run
away with Shallops and Boats, and begin on pyratical Exploits, as
_Phillips_ and his Companions, whom we are now treating of, had done.

And secondly (which is more opportunely for them,) they are visited every
Summer, almost, by some Set of Pyrates or other, already rais'd, who call
here for the same Purpose, (if young Beginners) and to lay in a Store of
Water and Provisions, which they find imported, much or little, by all the
Ships that use the Trade.

Towards this Country _Phillips_ was making his Way, and took on the Voyage,
besides those abovementioned, one _Salter_, in a Sloop off the Isle of
_Sables_, which Vessel they made use of themselves, and gave back
_Mortimer_'s Ship to the Mate and Crew. The same Day, _viz._ the 4th of
_April_, took a Scooner, one _Chadwell_, Master, which they scuttled, in
order to sink; but Capt. _Phillips_ understanding that she belong'd to Mr.
_Minors_ at _Newfoundland_, with whose Vessel they first went off a
pyrating, a Qualm of Conscience came athwart his Stomach, and he said to
his Companions, _We have done him Injury enough already_; so order'd the
Vessel immediately to be repair'd, and return'd her to the Master.