The Governor at this Time was very ill of a Fever, and, for the better
Accomodation in his Sickness, was carried aboard the Ship _Gambia Castle_,
where he continued for about three Weeks, and therefore could have little
to say in this Dispute, tho' he resolved not to stay in a Place, where
there was so little Occasion for him, and where his Power was so confin'd.
The Merchants had certainly Orders from the Company, to issue the
Provisions out to the Garrison, and the same is done along the whole Coast;
but whether they had cut them short of the Allowance that was appointed
them, I can't say, but if they did, then is the Loss of the Ship and
Garrison owing principally to their ill Conduct.

However, an Accident that happened on Board the Ship, did not a little
contribute to this Misfortune, which was a Pique that the Captain of her
took against his second Mate, _George Lowther_, the Man who is the Subject
of this short History; and who losing his Favour, found Means to ingratiate
himself into the good liking of the common Sailors, insomuch that when
Captain _Russel_ ordered him to be punish'd, the Men took up Handspikes,
and threat'ned to knock that Man down, that offered to lay hold of the
Mate. This served but to widen the Differences between him and the Captain,
and more firmly attach'd _Lowther_ to the Ship's Company, the greatest Part
of which, he found ripe for any Mischief in the World.

Captain _Massey_ was no wit the better reconciled to the Place, by a longer
Continuance, nor to the Usage he met with there, and having often
Opportunities of conversing with _Lowther_, with whom he had contracted an
Intimacy in the Voyage; they aggravated one another's Grievances to such a
height, that they resolved upon Measures to curb the Power that controul'd
them, and to provide for themselves after another Manner.

When the Governor recover'd of his Fever, he went ashore to the Island, but
took no Notice of _Massey_'s Behaviour, tho' it was such as might give
Suspicion of what he designed; and _Lowther_, and the common Sailors, who
were in the Secret of Affairs, grew insolent and bold, even refusing to
obey when commanded to their Duty by Captain _Russel_ and the chief Mate.
The Captain seeing how Things were carried, goes ashore early one Morning
to the Governor and Factory, in order to hold a Council, which _Lowther_
apprehending, was in order to prevent his Design, sent a Letter in the same
Boat to _Massey_, intimating it to him, and _that he should repair on
Board, for it was high Time to put their Project in Execution._