In the Beginning of _September_, they took seven or eight Fishing-Boats in
_Harbour Island_, stole their Nets and other Tackle, and then went off the
_French_ Part of _Hispaniola_, and landed, and took Cattle away, with two
or three _French_ Men they found near the Water-Side, hunting of wild Hogs
in the Evening: The _French_ Men came on Board, whether by Consent or
Compulsion, I can't say. They afterwards plundered two Sloops, and returned
to _Jamaica_, on the North Coast of which Island, near _Porto Maria_ Bay,
they took a Scooner, _Thomas Spenlow_ Master; it was then the 19th of
_October_. The next Day, _Rackam_ seeing a Sloop in _Dry Harbour_ Bay, he
stood in and fired a Gun; the Men all run ashore, and he took the Sloop and
Lading, but when those ashore found them to be Pyrates, they hailed the
Sloop, and let them know they were all willing to come aboard of them.

_Rackam_'s coasting the Island in this Manner, proved fatal to him, for
Intelligence came to the Governor, of his Expedition, by a Canoa which he
had surprized ashore, in _Ocho_ Bay; upon which a Sloop was immediately
fitted out, and sent round the Island in quest of him, commanded by Captain
_Barnet_, with a good Number of Hands. _Rackam_ rounding the Island, and
drawing near the Westermost Point, called Point _Negril_, saw a small
Pettiauger, which at sight of the Sloop, run ashore and landed her Men;
when one of them hailed her, Answer was made, _They were_ English _Men_,
and desired the Pettiauger's Men to come on Board, and drink a Bowl of
Punch, which they were prevailed upon to do; accordingly the Company came
all aboard of the Pyrate, consisting of nine Persons, in an ill Hour; they
were armed with Muskets and Cutlashes, but, what was their real Design by
so doing, I shall not take upon me to say; but they had no sooner laid down
their Arms, and taken up their Pipes, but _Barnet_'s Sloop, which was in
Pursuit of _Rackam_'s, came in Sight.

The Pyrates finding she stood directly towards her, fear'd the Event, and
weighed their Anchor, which they but lately let go, and stood off: Captain
_Barnet_ gave them Chace, and having the Advantage of little Breezes of
Wind, which blew off the Land, came up with her, and, after a very small
Dispute, took her, and brought her into _Port Royal_, in _Jamaica_.

In about a Fortnight after the Prisoners were brought ashore, _viz.
November_ 16, 1720, a Court of Admiralty was held at St. _Jago de la Vega_,
before which the following Persons were convicted, and Sentence of Death
passed upon them, by the President, Sir _Nicholas Laws, viz. John Rackam_
Captain, _George Fetherston_ Master, _Richard Corner_ Quarter-Master, _John
Davis, John Howell, Patrick Carty, Thomas Earl, James Dobbin_ and _Noah
Harwood_. The five first were executed the next Day at _Gallows Point_, at
the Town of _Port Royal_, and the rest, the Day after, at _Kingston_;
_Rackam, Feverston_ and _Corner_, were afterwards taken down and hang'd up
in Chains, one at _Plumb Point_, one at _Bush Key_, and the other at _Gun
Key_.