The Master whose Life they had preserved, (perhaps only for supplying their
own Unskillfulness in Navigation,) advised them, that since contrary to
their Expectations, they had met with no Ship between _Cape Mount_, and the
_Bite_ of _Calabar_, to proceed to the Island of St. _Thomas_'s, where they
might recruit with Provisions and Water, and sell off the Slaves (about 70
of them) which they perceived would be a useless Lumber, and incommodious
to their Design. They arrived there in _August_ 1721, and one Evening,
while Part of them were on Shore, applying for this Purpose to the
Governor, and the other Part carelesly from the Deck, Mr. _Rowry_ stepp'd
into the Boat belonging to the Vessel, and pushed off, very suddenly: They
heard the Noise it made, and soon were upon Deck again, but having no other
Boat to pursue, nor a Musket, ready to fire, he got safe on Shore, and ran
to the Governor with his Complaint, who immediately imprisoned those
already there, and sent a Launch off to take the rest out of the Ship.

The _Swallow_ arrived at St. _Thomas_'s the Beginning of _October_
following, where, on Mr. _Rowry_'s Remonstrance, Application was made to
the _Portuguese_ Governor of that Island, for a Surrendery of these five
_English_ Prisoners then in the Castle; but he not only peremptorily
excused himself from it, as a Matter out of his Power, without particular
Direction from the Court of _Portugal_; but withal insinuated, that they
had only taken Refuge there from the Hardships and Severity they had met
with from their Master. The manner of Denial, and the avaritious Temper of
the Gentleman, which I had Occasion to be acquainted with, makes it very
suspicious, that he proposed considerable Gains to himself; for if Mr.
_Rowry_ had not made such an Escape to him, the Slaves had been his for
little or nothing, as a Bribe to silence his Suspicions, which any Man,
less acute than he, must have had from the awkward and unskilful Carriage
of such Merchants. But enough of this; perhaps he is not the only Governor
abroad that finds an Interest in countenancing these Fellows.

[Footnote *: Term for stealing of Men used all over the Coast.]

An Account of the Pyracies and Murders committed by _Philip Roche_,
_&c._

P_Hilip Roche_ was born in _Ireland_, and from his Youth had been
bred up to the Sea; he was a brisk genteel Fellow, of 30 Years of Age at
the Time of his Death; one whose black and savage Nature did no ways answer
the Comliness of his Person, his Life being almost one continued Scene of
Villany, before he was discovered to have committed the horrid Murders we
are now speaking of.

This inhumane Monster had been concerned with others, in insuring Ships to
a great Value, and then destroying them; by which Means, and other
Rogueries, he had got a little Money; and being Mate of a Ship, was
dilligent enough in trading for himself between _Ireland_ and _France_, so
that he was in a Way of getting himself a comfortable Livelihood: But, as
he resolved to be rich, and finding fair Dealing brought in Wealth but
slowly, he contriv'd to put other Things in Execution, and certainly had
murthered several innocent Persons in the Prosecution of his abominable
Schemes; but as I have now forgot the particular Circumstances of those
Relations, I shall confine my self at present to the Fact for which he
suffer'd.