_I cannot but take Notice in this Place, that during this long Peace, I
have not so much as heard of a _Dutch_ Pyrate: It is not that I take them
to be honester than their Neighbours; but when we account for it, it will,
perhaps, be a Reproach to our selves for our want of Industry: The Reason I
take to be, that after a War, when the _Dutch_ Ships are laid up, they have
a Fishery, where their Seamen find immediate Business, and as comfortable
Bread as they had before. Had ours the same Recourse in their Necessities,
I'm certain we should find the same Effect from it; for a Fishery is a
Trade that cannot be overstock'd; the Sea is wide enough for us all, we
need not quarrel for Elbow-room: Its Stores are infinite, and will ever
reward the Labourer. Besides, our own Coast, for the most Part, supply the
_Dutch_, who employ several hundred Sail constantly in the Trade, and so
sell to us our own Fish. I call it our own, for the Sovereignty of the
_British Seas_, are to this Day acknowledged us by the _Dutch_, and all the
neighbouring Nations; wherefore, if there was a publick Spirit among us, it
would be well worth our while to establish a National Fishery, which would
be the best Means in the World to prevent Pyracy, employ a Number of the
Poor, and ease the Nation of a great Burthen, by lowering the Price of
Provision in general, as well as of several other Commodities._

_I need not bring any Proofs of what I advance, _viz._ that there are
Multitudes of Seamen at this Day unemploy'd; it is but too evident by their
straggling, and begging all over the Kingdom. Nor is it so much their
Inclination to Idleness, as their own hard Fate, in being cast off after
their Work is done, to starve or steal. I have not known a Man of War
commission'd for several Years past, but three times her Compliment of Men
have offer'd themselves in _24_ Hours; the Merchants take their Advantage
of this, lessen their Wages, and those few who are in Business are poorly
paid, and but poorly fed; such Usage breeds Discontents amongst them, and
makes them eager for any Change._

_I shall not repeat what I have said in the History concerning the
Privateers of the _West-Indies_, where I have taken Notice they live upon
Spoil; and as Custom is a second Nature, it is no Wonder that, when an
honest Livlyhood is not easily had, they run into one so like their own; so
that it may be said, that Privateers in Time of War are a Nursery for
Pyrates against a Peace._

_Now we have accounted for their Rise and Beginning, it will be natural to
enquire why they are not taken and destroy'd, before they come to any Head,
seeing that they are seldom less than twelve Men of War stationed in our
American Plantations, even in Time of Peace; a Force sufficient to contend
with a powerful Enemy. This Enquiry, perhaps, will not turn much to the
Honour of those concern'd in that Service; however, I hope I may be
excus'd, if what I hint is with a Design of serving the Publick._