The first Thing they had now to do, was to chuse Officers, draw up
Articles, and settle their little Commonwealth, to prevent Disputes and
Ranglings afterwards; so _John Phillips_ was made Captain, _John Nutt_,
Master, (or Navigator) of the Vessel; _James Sparks_, Gunner; _Thomas
Fern_, Carpenter; and _Wiliam White_ was the only private Man in the whole
Crew: When this was done, one of them writ out the following Articles
(which we have taken _verbatim_) and all swore to 'em upon a Hatchet for
want of a Bible.

The Articles on Board the _Revenge._

1.

E_Very Man shall obey civil Command; the Captain shall have one full
Share and a half in all Prizes; the Master, Carpenter, Boatswain and Gunner
shall have one Share and quarter._

2.

_If any Man shall offer to run away, or keep any Secret from the Company,
he shall be marroon'd, with one Bottle of Powder, one Bottle of Water, one
small Arm, and Shot._

3.

_If any Man shall steal any Thing in the Company, or game, to the Value of
a Piece of Eight, he shall be marroon'd or shot._

4.

_If at any Time we should meet another Marrooner_ [_that is, _Pyrate,]
_that Man that shall sign his Articles without the Consent of our company,
shall suffer such Punishment as the Captain and Company shall think fit._

5.

_That Man that shall strike another whilst these Articles are in force,
shall receive_ Moses_'s Law_ (_that is_, 40 _Stripes lacking one_) _on the
bare Back._

6.

_That Man that shall snap his Arms, or smoak Tobacco in the Hold, without a
Cap to his Pipe, or carry a Candle lighted without a Lanthorn, shall suffer
the same Punishment as in the former Article._

7.

_That Man that shall not keep his Arms clean, fit for an Engagement, or
neglect his Business, shall be cut off from his Share, and suffer such
other Punishment as the Captain and the Company shall think fit._

8.

_If any Man shall lose a Joint in time of an Engagement, shall have_ 400
_Pieces of Eight; if a Limb_, 800.

9.

_If at any time you meet with a prudent Woman, that Man that offers to
meddle with her, without her Consent, shall suffer present Death._

Thus prepar'd, this bold Crew set out, and before they left the Banks they
made Prize of several small Fishing-Vessels, out of which they got a few
Hands, some _French_ and some _English_, and then sail'd for the
_West-Indies_; in one of these Vessels they took out one _John Rose
Archer_, who having been a Pyrate under the famous _Black-beard_, was
immediately preferr'd over other People's Heads, to be Quarter-Master to
the Company; which sudden Promotion so disgusted some of the older
Standers, especially _Fern_, the Carpenter, that it occasioned some
Mischief to follow, as we shall shew by and by.