Thus the Mother gained her Point, she bred up her Daughter as a Boy, and
when she grew up to some Sense, she thought proper to let her into the
Secret of her Birth, to induce her to conceal her Sex. It happen'd that the
Grandmother died, by which Means the Subsistance that came from that
Quarter, ceased, and they were more and more reduced in their
Circumstances; wherefore she was obliged to put her Daughter out, to wait
on a _French_ Lady, as a Foot-boy, being now thirteen Years of Age: Here
she did not live long, for growing bold and strong, and having also a
roving Mind, she entered her self on Board a Man of War, where she served
some Time, then quitted it, went over into _Flanders_, and carried Arms in
a Regiment of Foot, as a _Cadet_; and tho' upon all Actions, she behaved
herself with a great deal of Bravery, yet she could not get a Commission,
they being generally bought and sold; therefore she quitted the Service,
and took on in a Regiment of Horse; she behaved so well in several
Engagements, that she got the Esteem of all her Officers; but her Comrade
who was a _Fleming_, happening to be a handsome young Fellow, she falls in
Love with him, and from that Time, grew a little more negligent in her
Duty, so that, it seems, _Mars_ and _Venus_ could not be served at the same
Time; her Arms and Accoutrements which were always kept in the best Order,
were quite neglected: 'tis true, when her Comrade was ordered out upon a
Party, she used to go without being commanded, and frequently run herself
into Danger, where she had no Business, only to be near him; the rest of
the Troopers little suspecting the secret Cause which moved her to this
Behaviour, fancied her to be mad, and her Comrade himself could not account
for this strange Alteration in her, but Love is ingenious, and as they lay
in the same Tent, and were constantly together, she found a Way of letting
him discover her Sex, without appearing that it was done with Design.

He was much surprized at what he found out, and not a little pleased,
taking it for granted, that he should have a Mistress solely to himself,
which is an unusual Thing in a Camp, since there is scarce one of those
Campaign Ladies, that is ever true to a Troop or Company; so that he
thought of nothing but gratifying his Passions with very little Ceremony;
but he found himself strangely mistaken, for she proved very reserved and
modest, and resisted all his Temptations, and at the same Time was so
obliging and insinuating in her Carriage, that she quite changed his
Purpose, so far from thinking of making her his Mistress, he now courted
her for a Wife.

This was the utmost Wish of her Heart, in short, they exchanged Promises,
and when the Campaign was over, and the Regiment marched into Winter
Quarters, they bought Woman's Apparel for her, with such Money as they
could make up betwixt them, and were publickly married.