After a Description of the Quarter-Master, and his Duty, who acts as a sort
of a civil Magistrate on Board a Pyrate Ship; I shall consider their
military Officer, the Captain; what Privileges he exerts in such anarchy
and unrulyness of the Members: Why truly very little, they only permit him
to be Captain, on Condition, that they may be Captain over him; they
separate to his Use the great Cabin, and sometimes vote him small Parcels
of Plate and China, (for it may be noted that _Roberts_ drank his Tea
constantly) but then every Man, as the Humour takes him, will use the Plate
and China, intrude into his Apartment, swear at him, seize a Part of his
Victuals and Drink, if they like it, without his offering to find Fault or
contest it: Yet _Roberts_, by a better Management than usual, became the
chief Director in every Thing of Moment, and it happened thus:--The Rank of
Captain being obtained by the Suffrage of the Majority, it falls on one
superior for Knowledge and Boldness, _Pistol Proof_ (as they call it,) and
can make those fear, who do not love him; _Roberts_ is said to have
exceeded his Fellows in these Respects, and when advanced, enlarged the
Respect that followed it, by making a sort of Privy-Council of half a Dozen
of the greatest Bullies; such as were his Competitors, and had Interest
enough to make his Government easy; yet even those, in the latter Part of
his Reign, he had run counter to in every Project that opposed his own
Opinion; for which, and because he grew reserved, and would not drink and
roar at their Rate, a Cabal was formed to take away his Captainship, which
Death did more effectually.

The Captain's Power is uncontroulable in Chace, or in Battle, drubbing,
cutting, or even shooting any one who dares deny his Command. The same
Privilege he takes over Prisoners, who receive good or ill Usage, mostly as
he approves of their Behaviour, for tho' the meanest would take upon them
to misuse a Master of a Ship, yet he would controul herein, when he see it,
and merrily over a Bottle, give his Prisoners this double Reason for it.
First, That it preserved his Precedence; and secondly, That it took the
Punishment out of the Hands of a much more rash and mad Sett of Fellows
than himself. When he found that Rigour was not expected from his People,
(for he often practised it to appease them,) then he would give Strangers
to understand, that it was pure Inclination that induced him to a good
Treatment of them, and not any Love or Partiality to their Persons; for,
says he, _there is none of you but will hang me, I know, whenever you can
clinch me within your Power._

* * *

And now seeing the Disadvantages they were under for pursuing the Account,
_viz._ a small Vessel ill repaired, and without Provisions, or Stores; they
resolved one and all, with the little Supplies they could get, to proceed
for the _West-Indies_, not doubting to find a Remedy for all these Evils,
and to retreive their Loss.