One would think these Things should induce them to reform their Lives, but
so many Reprobates together, encouraged and spirited one another up in
their Wickedness, to which a continual Course of drinking did not a little
contribute; for in _Black-beard_'s Journal, which was taken, there were
several Memorandums of the following Nature, sound writ with his own
Hand.-- _Such a Day, Rum all out:--Our Company somewhat sober:--A damn'd
Confusion amongst us!--Rogues a plotting;--great Talk of Separation.--So I
look'd sharp for a Prize;--such a Day took one, with a great deal of Liquor
on Board, so kept the Company hot, damned hot, then all Things went well
again._

Thus it was these Wretches passed their Lives, with very little Pleasure or
Satisfaction, in the Possession of what they violently take away from
others, and sure to pay for it at last, by an ignominious Death.

The Names of the Pyrates killed in the Engagement, are as follow.

_Edward Teach_, Commander.

_Phillip Morton_, Gunner.

_Garrat Gibbens_, Boatswain.

_Owen Roberts_, Carpenter.

_Thomas Miller_, Quarter-Master.

_John Husk_,

_Joseph Curtice_,

_Joseph Brooks_, (1)

_Nath. Jackson_.

All the rest, except the two last, were wounded and afterwards
hanged in _Virginia_.

_John Carnes, Joseph Philips,_

_Joseph Brooks, _(2)_ James Robbins,_

_James Blake, John Martin,_

_John Gills, Edward Salter,_

_Thomas Gates, Stephen Daniel,_

_James White, Richard Greensail._

_Richard Stiles, Israel Hands, _pardoned.

_CÃ¦sar, Samuel Odel_, acquited.

* * *

There were in the Pyrate Sloops, and ashore in a Tent, near where the
Sloops lay, 25 Hogsheads of Sugar, 11 Teirces, and 145 Bags of Cocoa, a
Barrel of Indigo, and a Bale of Cotton; which, with what was taken from the
Governor and Secretary, and the Sale of the Sloop, came to 2500 _l._
besides the Rewards paid by the Governor of _Virginia_, pursuant to his
Proclamation; all which was divided among the Companies of the two Ships,
_Lime_ and _Pearl_, that lay in _James_ River; the brave Fellows that took
them coming in for no more than their Dividend amongst the rest, and was
paid it within these three Months.

CHAP. IV. OF Major _Stede Bonnet_, And his CREW.

THE Major was a Gentleman of good Reputation in the Island of
_Barbadoes_, was Master of a plentiful Fortune, and had the Advantage of a
liberal Education. He had the least Temptation of any Man to follow such a
Course of Life, from the Condition of his Circumstances. It was very
surprizing to every one, to hear of the Major's Enterprize, in the Island
were he liv'd; and as he was generally esteem'd and honoured, before he
broke out into open Acts of Pyracy, so he was afterwards rather pitty'd
than condemned, by those that were acquainted with him, believing that this
Humour of going a pyrating, proceeded from a Disorder in his Mind, which
had been but too visible in him, some Time before this wicked Undertaking;
and which is said to have been occasioned by some Discomforts he found in a
married State; be that as it will, the Major was but ill qualify'd for the
Business, as not understanding maritime Affairs.