_Low_ ordered the Scooner to lye in the Fare between St. _Michael_'s and
St. _Mary_'s, where, about the 20th of _August_, Captain _Carter_ in the
_Wright_ Galley, had the ill Fortune to come in her Way; and because at
first they shewed Inclinations to defend themselves, and what they had, the
Pyrates cut and mangled them in a barbarous Manner; particularly some
_Portuguese_ Passengers, two of which being Friers, they triced up at each
Arm of the Fore-Yard, but let them down again before they were quite dead,
and this they repeated several Times out of Sport.

Another _Portuguese_, who was also Captain _Carter_'s Passenger, putting on
a sorrowful Countenance at what he saw acted, one of this vile Crew
attacked him upon the Deck, saying, _he did not like his Looks_, and
thereupon gave him one Blow a-cross his Belly with his Cutlash, that cut
out his Bowels, and he fell down dead without speaking a Word. At the same
Time another of these Rogues cutting at a Prisoner, missed his Mark, and
Captain _Low_ standing in his Way, very opportunely received the Stroke
upon his under Jaw, which laid the Teeth bare; upon this the Surgeon was
called, who immediately stitched up the Wound, but _Low_ finding fault with
the Operation, the Surgeon being tollerably drunk, as it was customary for
every Body to be, struck _Low_ such a Blow with his Fist, that broke out
all the Stitches, and then bid him sew up his Chops himself and be damned,
so that _Low_ made a very pitiful Figure for some Time after.

When they had plundered Captain _Carter_'s Ship, several of them were for
burning her, as they had done the _French_ Man, but it was otherwise
resolved at last; for after they had cut her Cables, Rigging and Sails to
Pieces, they left her to the Mercy of the Sea.

After these Depredations, they steered for the Island of _Madera_, where
missing other Booty, they took up with a Fishing-Boat, with two old Men and
a Boy in her, one of which they detained on Board, but sent the other
ashore with a Flag of Truce, demanding a Boat of Water of the Governor, on
Pain of taking away the old Man's Life, whom they threatened to hang at the
Yard-Arm, upon their refusal; but the Thing being complied with, the old
Man was honourably (as the Pyrates say) discharged, and all the three much
handsomer cloathed than when they took them. From this Island they sailed
to the _Canaries_, but meeting with no Prey there, they continued their
Course for the _Cape de Verd_ Islands, and at _Bonavista_, took a Ship
called the _Liverpool Merchant_, Captain _Goulding_, from whom they stole a
great Quantity of Provisions and dry Goods, 300 Gallons of Brandy, two Guns
and Carriages, a Mast, Yard and Hawsers, besides six of his Men, and then
would not let them Trade there, nor at St. _Nicholas_, but obliged Captain
_Goulding_ to go with his Ship, to the Isle of _May._

The Pyrate also took among these Islands, a Ship belonging to _Liverpool,
Scot_ Commander; two _Portuguese_ Sloops bound for _Brasil_; a small
_English_ Sloop trading there, _James Pease_ Master, bound to _Sancta
Crux_, and three Sloops from St. _Thomas_ bound to _Curaso_, the Masters
Names were _Lilly, Staples_ and _Simpkins_, all which they plundered, and
then let go about their Business, except one Sloop which they fitted up for
the following Purpose.