The Road without, is used by the _Portugueze_, when they are nigh sailing
for _Europe_, and wait for the Convoy, or are bound to _Bahia_ to them, and
by Strangers only when Necessity compels; the best of it is in ten Fathom
Water, near three Miles W. N. W. from the Town; nigher in, is foul with the
many Anchors lost there by the _Portugueze_ Ships; and farther out (in 14
Fathom) corally and Rocky. _July_ is the worst and Winter Season of this
Coast, the Trade Winds being then very strong and dead, bringing in a
prodigious and unsafe Swell into the Road, intermixed every Day with
Squalls, Rain, and a hazey Horizon, but at other times serener Skies and
Sunshine.

In these Southern Latitudes is a Constellation, which from some Resemblance
it bears to a _Jerusalem_ Cross, has the Name of _Crosiers_, the brightest
of this Hemisphere, and are observed by, as the North Star is in Northern
Latitudes; but what I mention this for, is, to introduce the admirable
Phænomenon in these Seas of the Megellanick Clouds, whose Risings and
Sittings are so regular, that I have been assured, the same Nocturnal
Observations are made by them as by the Stars; They are two Clouds, small
and whitish, no larger in Appearance than a Man's Hat, and are seen here in
_July_ in the Latitude of 8° S. about four of the Clock in the Morning; if
their Appearance should be said to be the Reflection of Light, from some
Stellary Bodies above them, yet the Difficulty is not easily answered, how
these, beyond others, become so durable and regular in their Motions.

From these casual Observations on the Country, the Towns, Coast, and Seas
of _Brasil_, it would be an Omission to leave the Subject, without some
Essay on an interloping Slave Trade here, which none of our Countrymen are
adventurous enough to pursue, though it very probably, under a prudent
Manager, would be attended with Safety and very great Profit; and I admire
the more it is not struck at, because Ships from the Southern Coast of
_Africa_, don't lengthen the Voyage to the _West-Indies_ a great deal, by
taking a Part of _Brasil_ in their Way.

The Disadvantages the _Portugueze_ are under for purchasing Slaves, are
these, that they have very few proper Commodities for _Guiney_, and the
Gold, which was their chiefest, by an Edict in _July_ 1722, stands now
prohibited from being carried thither, so that the Ships employed therein
are few, and insufficient for the great Mortality and Call of their Mines;
besides, should they venture at breaking so destructive a Law, as the
abovementioned (as no doubt they do, or they could make little or no
Purchace) yet Gold does not raise its Value like Merchandize in travelling
(especially to _Africa_) and when the Composition with the _Dutch_ is also
paid, they may be said to buy their Negroes at almost double the Price the
_English, Dutch_, or _French_ do, which necessarily raises their Value
extravagantly at _Brasil_; (those who can purchase one, buying a certainer
Annuity than _South-Sea_ Stock.)

Thus far of the Call for Slaves at _Brasil_; I shall now consider and
obviate some Difficulties objected against any Foreigners (suppose
_English_) interposing in such a Trade, and they are some on theirs, and
some on our Side.