This was their last and fatal Expedition, which we shall be more particular
in, because, it cannot be imagined that they could have had Assurance to
have undertaken it, but upon a Presumption, that the Men of War, (whom they
knew were upon the Coast,) were unable to attack them, or else pursuant to
the Rumour that had indiscretionally obtained at _Sierraleon_, were gone
thither again.

It is impossible at this Time, to think they could know of the weak and
sickly Condition they were in, and therefore founded the Success of this
second Attempt upon the Coast, on the latter Presumption, and this seems to
be confirmed by their falling in with the Coast as low as Cape _Lahou_,
(and even that was higher than they designed,) in the beginning of
_January_, and took the Ship called the _King Solomon_, with 20 Men in
their Boat, and a trading Vessel, both belonging to the Company. The Pyrate
Ship happened to fall about a League to Leeward of the _King Solomon_, at
Cape _Appollonia_, and the Current and Wind opposing their working up with
the Ship, they agreed to send the Long-Boat, with a sufficient Number of
Men to take her: The Pyrates are all Voluntiers on these Occasions, the
Word being always given, _who will go?_ And presently the stanch and firm
Men offer themselves; because, by such Readiness, they recommend their
Courage, and have an Allowance also of a Shift of Cloaths, from Head to
Foot, out of the Prize.

They rowed towards the _King Solomon_ with a great deal of Alacrity, and
being hailed by the Commander of her, answered, _Defiance_; Captain
_Trahern_, before this, observing a great Number of Men in the Boat, began
not to like his Visitors, and prepared to receive them, firing a Musket as
they come under his Stern, which they returned with a Volley, and made
greater Speed to get on Board: Upon this, he applied to his Men, and ask'd
them, whether they would stand by him, to defend the Ship, it being a Shame
they should be taken by half their Number, without any Repulse? But his
Boatswain, _Philips_, took upon him to be the Mouth of the People, and put
an End to the Dispute; he said plainly, he would not, laid down his Arms in
the King's Name, as he was pleased to term it, and called out to the Boat
for Quarters, so that the rest, by his Example, were mislead to the losing
of the Ship.

When they came on Board, they brought her under Sail, by an expeditious
Method, of cutting the Cable; _Walden_, one of the Pyrates, telling the
Master, this _yo hope_ of heaving up the Anchor was a needless trouble,
when they designed to burn the Ship. They brought her under Commadore
_Roberts_'s Stern, and not only rifled her of what Sails, Cordage, _&c._
they wanted for themselves, but wantonly throw'd the Goods of the Company
overboard, like Spend-thrifts, that neither expected or designed any
Account.