This Island (which I have no Name for) lies off the Southwest End of
_Cuba_, uninhabited, and little frequented. On the East End is a Lagune, so
narrow, that a Ship can but just go in, tho' there's from 15 to 22 Foot
Water, for almost a League up: On both Sides of the Lagune grows red
Mangrove Trees, very thick, that the Entrance of it, as well as the Vessels
laying there, is hardly to be seen. In the Middle of the Island are here
and there a small thick Wood of tall Pines, and other Trees scattered about
in different Places.

Here they staid about nine Months, but not having Provision for above two,
they were forced to take what the Island afforded, which was Fish of
several Sorts, particularly Turtle, which latter was the chiefest Food they
lived on, and was found in great Plenty on the Coasts of this Island;
whether there might be any wild Hogs, Beef, or other Cattle, common to
several Islands of the _West-Indies_, or that the Pyrates were too idle to
hunt them, or whether they preferr'd other Provisions to that sort of Diet,
I know not; but I was informed by them, that for the whole Time they eat
not a Bit of any kind of Flesh-Meat, nor Bread; the latter was supply'd by
Rice, of which they had a great Quantity aboard: This was boyl'd and
squeez'd dry, and so eat with the Turtle.

There are three or four Sorts of these Creatures in the _West-Indies_, the
largest of which will weight 150 or 200 Pound Weight or more, but those
that were found upon this Island were of the smallest Kind, weighing 10 or
12 Pounds each, with a fine natural wrought Shell, and beautifully clouded;
the Meat sweet and tender, some Part of it eating like Chicken, some like
Veal, _&c._ so that it was no extraordinary Hardship for them to live upon
this Provision alone, since it affords variety of Meats to the Taste, of it
self. The manner of catching this Fish is very particular; you must
understand, that in the Months of _May, June_ and _July_, they lay their
Eggs in order to hatch their Young, and this three times in a Season, which
is always in the Sand of the Sea-shore, each laying 80 or 90 Eggs at a
time. The Male accompanies the Female, and come ashore in the Night only,
when they must be watch'd, without making any Noise, or having a Light; as
soon as they land, the Men that watch for them, turn them on their Backs,
then haul them above high Water Mark, and leave them till next Morning,
where they are sure to find them, for they can't turn again, nor move from
the Place. It is to be observ'd, that besides their laying time, they come
ashore to feed, but then what's very remarkable in these Creatures, they
always resort to different Places to breed, leaving their usual Haunts for
two or three Months, and 'tis thought they eat nothing in all that Season.

They pass'd their Time here in Dancing, and other Diversions, agreeable to
these sort of Folks; and among the rest, they appointed a Mock Court of
Judicature to try one another for Pyracy, and he that was a Criminal one
Day was made Judge another.-- I had an Account given me of one of these
merry Tryals, and as it appeared diverting, I shall give the Readers a
short Account of it.