In _June_ 1718, he went to Sea, upon another Expedition, and steered his
Course towards _Bermudas_; he met with two or three _English_ Vessels in
his Way, but robbed them only of Provisions, Stores and other Necessaries,
for his present Expence; but near the Island aforementioned, he fell in
with two _French_ Ships, one of them was loaden with Sugar and Cocoa, and
the other light, both bound to _Martinico_; the Ship that had no Lading he
let go, and putting all the Men of the loaded Ship aboard her, he brought
home the other with her Cargo to _North-Carolina_, where the Governor and
the Pyrates shared the Plunder.

When _Teach_ and his Prize arrived, he and four of his Crew went to his
Excellency, and made Affidavit, that they found the _French_ Ship at Sea,
without a Soul on Board her; and then a Court was called, and the Ship
condemned: The Governor had sixty Hogsheads of Sugar for his Dividend, and
one Mr. _Knight_, who was his Secretary, and Collector for the Province,
twenty, and the rest was shared among the other Pyrates.

The Business was not yet done, the Ship remained, and it was possible one
or other might come into the River, that might be acquainted with her, and
so discover the Roguery; but _Teach_ thought of a Contrivance to prevent
this, for, upon a Pretence that she was leaky, and that she might sink, and
so stop up the Mouth of the Inlet or Cove where she lay, he obtained an
Order from the Governor, to bring her out into the River, and set her on
Fire, which was accordingly executed, and she was burnt down to the Water's
Edge, her Bottom sunk, and with it, their Fears of her ever rising in
Judgment against them.

Captain _Teach_, alias _Black-beard_, passed three or four Months in the
River, sometimes lying at Anchor in the Coves, at other Times sailing from
one Inlet to another, trading with such Sloops as he met, for the Plunder
he had taken, and would often give them Presents for Stores and Provisions
took from them; that is, when he happened to be in a giving Humour; at
other Times he made bold with them, and took what he liked, without saying,
_by your Leave_, knowing well, they dared not send him a Bill for the
Payment. He often diverted himself with going ashore among the Planters,
where he revelled Night and Day: By these he was well received, but whether
out of Love or Fear, I cannot say; sometimes he used them courteously
enough, and made them Presents of Rum and Sugar, in Recompence of what he
took from them; but, as for Liberties (which 'tis said) he and his
Companions often took with the Wives and Daughters of the Planters, I
cannot take upon me to say, whether he paid them _ad Valorem_, or no. At
other Times he carried it in a lordly Manner towards them, and would lay
some of them under Contribution; nay, he often proceeded to bully the
Governor, not, that I can discover the least Cause of Quarrel betwixt them,
but it seemed only to be done, to shew he dared do it.