Here the Pyrates came, cleaned the _Cassandra_, and divided their Plunder,
sharing 42 small Diamonds a Man, or in less Proportion according to their
Magnitude. An ignorant, or a merry Fellow, who had only, one in this
Division, as being judged equal, in Value to 42 small, muttered very much
at the Lot, and went and broke it in a Morter, swearing afterwards, he had
a better Share than any of them, for he had beat it, he said, into 43
Sparks.

Those who were not for running the Hazard of their Necks, with 42 Diamonds,
besides other Treasure, in their Pockets, knocked off, and stay'd with
their old Acquaintance at _Madagascar_, on mutual Agreements, the longer
Livers to take all. The Residue having therefore no Occasion for two Ships,
the _Victory_ being leaky, she was burnt, the Men (as many as would) coming
into the _Cassandra_, under the Command of _Taylor_, who we must leave a
Time, projecting either for _Cochin_, to dispose of their Diamonds among
their old Friends the _Dutch_, or else for the _Red_ or _China_ Seas, to
avoid the Men of War, that continually clamoured in their Ears, a Noise of
Danger, and give the _little_ Account we are able, of that Squadron, who
arrived in _India_, early in the Year 1721.

At _Cape Good Hope_, in _June_, the Commadore met with a Letter, which was
left for him by the Governor of _Madras_, to whom it was wrote by the
Governor of _Pandicherry_, a _French_ Factory, on the _Coromondel_ Coast,
signifying, the Pyrates at the Writing of it, were then strong in the
_Indian_ Seas, having 11 Sail and 1500 Men, but that many of them went away
about that Time, for the Coast of _Brazil_ and _Guinea_; others settled and
fortified themselves at _Madagascar, Mauritius, Johanna_ and _Mohilla_: And
that others under _Conden_, in a Ship called the _Dragon_, took a large
_Moor_'s Vessel, coming from _Iudda_ and _Mocho_, with thirteen Lackies of
Rupees on Board, (_i. e._ 1300000 half Crowns,) who having divided the
Plunder, burnt their Ship and Prize, and sat down quietly with their other
Friends at _Madagascar_.

The Account contain'd several other Things which we have before
related.--Commadore _Matthews_, upon receiving this Intelligence, and being
fond of the Service he came out for, hastened to those Islands, as the most
hopeful Places of Success; at St. _Mary_'s would have engaged _England_
with Promises of Favour, if he would communicate what he knew, concerning
the _Cassandra_, and the rest of the Pyrates, and assist in the Pilotage;
but _England_ was wary, and thought this was to _surrender at Discretion_,
so they took up the _Judda_ Ship's Guns that was burnt, and the Men of War
dispersed themselves on several Voyages and Cruises afterwards, as was
thought likeliest to succeed, tho' to no Purpose: Then the Squadron went
down to _Bombay_, were saluted by the Fort, and came home.