When the Sloop arrived in the Bay, _Ned Low_ was appointed Patron of the
Boat, which was employ'd in cutting of Logwood, and bringing it aboard to
lade the Ship; for that is the Commodity they make the Voyage for: In the
Boat were twelve Men besides _Low_, who all go arm'd, because of the
_Spaniards_, from whom this Logwood is but little better than stole. It
happened that the Boat one Day came aboard just before Dinner was ready,
and _Low_ desired that they might stay and Dine; but the Captain, being in
a Hurry for his Lading, ordered them a Bottle of Rum, and to take t'other
Trip, because no Time should be lost: This provoked the Boat's Crew, but
particularly _Low_, who takes up a loaded Musquet and fires at the Captain,
but missing him, shot another poor Fellow thro' the Head, then put off the
Boat, and with his twelve Companions goes to Sea: The next Day they took a
small Vessel, and go in her, make a black Flag, and declare War against all
the World.

They then proceeded to the Island of the _Grand Caimanes_, intending to
have fitted up their small Vessel, and prepare themselves as well as their
Circumstances would permit, for their honourable Employment; but falling in
Company with _George Lowther_, another Pyrate there, who paying his
Compliments to _Low_, as great Folks do to one another when they meet, and
offering himself as an Ally; _Low_ accepted of the Terms, and so the Treaty
was presently sign'd without Plenipo's or any other Formalities.

We have already given an Account of their joynt Pyracies, under _Lowther_
as chief Commander, till the 28th of _May_, 1722, when they took a
Brigantine of _Boston_, bound thither from St. _Christophers_, at which
Time they parted, and _Edward Low_ went into the Brigantine, with forty
four others, who chose him their Captain: They took with them two Guns,
four Swivels, six Quarter-Casks of Powder, Provisions and some Stores, and
so left _Lowther_ to prosecute his Adventures, with the Men he had left.

Their first Adventure in the Brigantine, was on _Sunday_ the 3d Day of
_June_, when they took a Vessel belonging to _Amboy, John Hance_ Master,
whom he rifled of his Provisions, and let go; the same Day he met with a
Sloop, _James Calquhoon_ Master, off of _Rhode Island_, bound into that
Port, whom he first plundered, and then cut away his Boltsprit, and all his
Rigging, also his Sails from the Yards, and wounded the Master, to prevent
his getting in to give Intelligence, and then stood away to the
South-Eastward, with all the Sail he could make, there being then but
little Wind.