When the Ship came out to Sea, _Lowther_ called up all the Company, and
told them, _it was the greatest Folly imaginable, to think of returning to_
England, _for what they had already done, could not be justifyed upon any
Pretence whatsoever, but would be look'd upon, in the Eye of the Law, a
capital Offence, and that none of them were in a Condition to withstand the
Attacks of such powerful Adversaries, as they would meet with at Home; for
his Part he was determined not to run such a Hazard, and therefore if his
Proposal was not agreed to, he desired to be set a Shore in some Place of
Safety: That they had a good Ship under them, a parcel of brave Follows in
her, that it was not their Business to starve, or be made Slaves; and
therefore, if they were all of his Mind, they should seek their Fortunes
upon the Seas, as other Adventurers had done before them._ They one and all
came into the Measures, knocked down the Cabins, made the Ship flush fore
and aft, prepared black Colours, new named her, _the Delivery_, having
about 50 Hands and 16 Guns, and the following short Articles were drawn up,
signed and sworn to upon the Bible.

The Articles of Captain _George Lowther_, and his Company.

1. _THE Captain is to have two full Shares; the Master is to have one Share
and a half; the Doctor, Mate, Gunner, and Boatswain, one Share and a
quarter._

2. _He that shall be found Guilty of taking up any unlawful Weapon on Board
the Privateer, or any Prize, by us taken, so as to strike or abuse one
another, in any regard, shall suffer what Punishment the Captain and
Majority of the Company shall think fit._

3. _He that shall be found Guilty of Cowardize, in the Time of Engagement,
shall suffer what Punishment the Captain and Majority shall think fit._

4. _If any Gold, Jewels, Silver_, &c. _be found on Board of any Prize or
Prizes, to the Value of a Piece of Eight, and the Finder do not deliver it
to the Quarter-Master, in the Space of_ 24 _Hours, shall suffer what
Punishment the Captain and Majority shall think fit._

5. _He that is found Guilty of Gaming, or Defrauding another to the Value
of a Shilling, shall suffer what Punishment the Captain and Majority of the
Company shall think fit._

6. _He that shall have the Misfortune to lose a Limb, in Time of
Engagement, shall have the Sum of one hundred and fifty Pounds Sterling,
and remain with the Company as long as he shall think fit._

7. _Good Quarters to be given when call'd for._

8. _He that sees a Sail first, shall have the best Pistol, or Small-Arm, on
Board her._

It was the 13th of _June_, that _Lowther_ left the Settlement, and on the
20th, being then within twenty Leagues of _Barbadoes_, he came up with a
Brigantine, belonging to _Boston_, called the _Charles, James Douglass_
Master, which they plundered in a pyratical Manner, and let the Vessel go;
but least she should meet with any of the Station Ships, and so give
Information of the Robbery, _in Terrorem_, to prevent a Pursuit, _Lowther_
contrived a sort of a Certificate, which he directed the Master to shew to
their Consort, if they should meet with her; and upon Sight of it the
Brigantine would pass unmolested: This Consort, he pretended, was a 40 Gun
Ship, and cruising therabouts.