This was the first Voyage that _Mortimer_ had the Command of a Vessel, by
whose Death is a poor disconsolate Widow made miserable, more in regard of
the mutual Love and Fidelity they lived in, than the Loss of what would
have been a handsome and comfortable Provision for themselves and Children,
which, I think, now ought to be made up by the Publick, since 'twas in the
publick Service he fell; for had his Attempt succeeded, in all Probability
he would not only have regained his own Ship, but entirely subdued and
destroy'd the Enemy, there being several, as it afterwards proved, that
would have seconded such an Enterprize when ever they found a Beginning
made.

This Affair ended without any other Consequence than a strict Search after
a Brother of Captain _Mortimer_, who was on Board, in order to have put him
likewise to death; but he had the good Fortune to meet with a Townsman
among the Crew, who hid him for four and twenty Hours in a Stay-Sail, till
the Heat of their Fury was over, and by that Means happily missed of the
Fate designed him.

Out of the other _Virginia_ Man before spoken of, they took one _Edward
Cheeseman_, a Carpenter, to supply the Place of their late Carpenter,
_Fern._ He was a modest sober young Man, very averse to their unlawful
Practice, and a brave gallant Fellow. There was one _John Philmore_ of
_Ipswich_, formerly taken by them, ordered to row _Cheeseman_ aboard of
_Mortimer_'s Ship, which the Pyrates possess'd themselves of, who, seeing
with what Reluctance and Uneasiness _Cheeseman_ was brought away, told him,
he would join with him, in some Measures, to over-throw the pyratical
Government, telling him withal, their present Condition, what Difficulties
_Phillips_ had met with to make up his Company, and how few voluntary
Pyrates there were on Board, and the like. But, however specious this
seemed, _Cheeseman_ out of Prudence rejected his Offers of Assistance, till
he saw some Proofs of his Sincerity, which after a few Days he was
convinced of, and then they often consulted; but as the old Pyrates were
always jealous of the new Comers, and consequently observant of their
Behaviour; this was done with the utmost Caution, chiefly when they were
lying down together, as tho' asleep, and, at other Times, when they were
playing at Cards; both which they feigned often to do for that Purpose.

The Pyrates went on all the while, plundering and robbing several Ships and
Vessels, bending their Course towards _Newfoundland_, where they designed
to raise more Men, and do all the Mischief they could on the Banks, and in
the Harbours.

_Newfoundland_ is an Island on the North Continent of _America_, contained
between the 46 and 53Â° of N. Latitude, discovered first by St. _Sebastion
Cabot_ A. D. 1497, but never settled till the Year 1610; when Mr. _Guy_ of
_Bristol_ revived the Affair, and obtained a Patent, and himself to be
Governor. The Island is deserted by the Natives and neglected by us, being
desolate and Woody, and the Coast and Harbour only held for the Conveniency
of the Cod Fishery, for which alone they were settled.

The Bays and Harbours about it, are very numerous and convenient, and being
deeply indented, makes it easy for any Intelligence quickly to pass from
one Harbour to another over Land; especially the principal, St. _John_'s
and _Placentia_, when the Appearance of an Enemy makes them apprehend
Danger.