Besides these Frigots, two Men of War were ordered to attend Captain
_Rogers_, late Commander of the two _Bristol_ Ships, called the _Duke_ and
_Dutchess_, that took the rich _Acapulca_ Ship, and made a Tour round the
Globe. This Gentleman received a Commission from his Majesty, to be
Governor of the Island of _Providence_, and was vested with Power to make
Use of all possible Methods for reducing the Pyrates; and that nothing
might be wanting, he carried with him, the King's Proclamation of Pardon,
to those who should return to their Duty by a certain Time; the
Proclamation is as follows;

By the KING,

A PROCLAMATION, for suppressing of PYRATES.

GEORGE R.

W_Hereas we have received Information, that several Persons, Subjects
of _Great Britain_, have since the _24_th Day of _June_, in the Year of our
Lord _1715_, committed divers Pyracies and Robberies upon the High-Seas, in
the _West-Indies_, or adjoyning to our Plantations, which hath and may
Occasion great Damage to the Merchants of _Great Britain_, and others
trading into those Parts; and tho' we have appointed such a Force as we
judge sufficient for suppressing the said Pyrates, yet the more effectually
to put an End to the same, we have thought fit, by and with the Advice of
our Privy Council, to Issue this our Royal Proclamation; and we do hereby
promise, and declare, that in Case any of the said Pyrates, shall on or
before the _5_th of _September_, in the Year of our Lord _1718_, surrender
him or themselves, to one of our Principal Secretaries of State in _Great
Britain_ or _Ireland_, or to any Governor or Deputy Governor of any of our
Plantations beyond the Seas; every such Pyrate and Pyrates so surrendering
him, or themselves, as aforesaid, shall have our gracious Pardon, of and
for such, his or their Pyracy, or Pyracies, by him or them committed before
the fifth of _January_ next ensuing. And we do hereby strictly charge and
command all our Admirals, Captains, and other Officers at Sea, and all our
Governors and Commanders of any Forts, Castles, or other Places in our
Plantations, and all other our Officers Civil and Military, to seize and
take such of the Pyrates, who shall refuse or neglect to surrender
themselves accordingly. And we do hereby further declare, that in Case any
Person or Persons, on, or after, the _6_th Day of _September 1718_, shall
discover or seize, or cause or procure to be discovered or seized, any one
or more of the said Pyrates, so refusing or neglecting to surrender
themselves as aforesaid, so as they may be brought to Justice, and
convicted of the said Offence, such Person or Persons, so making such
Discovery or Seizure, or causing or procuring such Discovery or Seizure to
be made, shall have and receive as a Reward for the same, _viz._ for every
Commander of any private Ship or Vessel, the Sum of _100_ l. for every
Lieutenant, Master, Boatswain, Carpenter, and Gunner, the Sum of _40_ l;
for every inferior Officer, the Sum of _30_ l. and for every private Man,
the Sum of _20_ l. And if any Person or Persons, belonging to and being
Part of the Crew of any such Pyrate Ship or Vessel, shall on or after the
said sixth Day of _September 1718_, seize and deliver, or cause to be
seized or delivered, any Commander or Commanders, of such Pyrate Ship or
Vessel, so as that he or they be brought to Justice, and convicted of the
said Offence, such Person or Persons, as a Reward for the same, shall
receive for every such Commander, the Sum of _200_ l. which said Sums, the
Lord Treasurer, or the Commissioners of our Treasury for the Time being,
are hereby required, and desired to pay accordingly._