All the Prisoners pleaded for Arrest of Judgment very movingly, but the
Court had such an Abhorrence of their Crime, that they could not be
prevailed upon to shew Mercy, till one of the Judges, whose Name was
_Valentine Ashplant_, stood up, and taking his Pipe out of his Mouth, said,
he had something to offer to the Court in behalf of one of the Prisoners;
and spoke to this Effect.-- _By G--_, Glasby _shall not dye; d--n me if he
shall._ After this learned Speech, he sat down in his Place, and resumed
his Pipe. This Motion was loudly opposed by all the rest of the Judges, in
equivalent Terms; but _Ashplant_, who was resolute in his Opinion, made
another pathetical Speech in the following Manner. _G-- d--n ye Gentlemen,
I am as good a Man as the best of you; d--m my_ S--l _if ever I turned my
Back to any Man in my Life, or ever will, by G_--; Glasby _is an honest
Fellow, notwithstanding this Misfortune, and I love him, D--l d--n me if I
don't: I hope he'll live and repent of what he has done; but d--n me if he
must dye, I will dye along with him._ And thereupon, he pulled out a pair
of Pistols, and presented them to some of the learned Judges upon the
Bench; who, perceiving his Argument so well supported, thought it
reasonable that _Glasby_ should be acquitted; and so they all came over to
his Opinion, and allowed it to be Law.

But all the Mitigation that could be obtained for the other Prisoners, was,
that they should have the Liberty of choosing any four of the whole Company
to be their Executioners. The poor Wretches were ty'd immediately to the
Mast, and there shot dead, pursuant to their villainous Sentence.

When they put to Sea again, the Prizes which had been detained only for
fear of spreading any Rumour concerning them, which had like to have been
so fatal at _Corvocoo_, were thus disposed of: They burnt their own Sloop,
and mann'd _Norton_'s Brigantine, sending the Master away in the _Dutch_
Interloper, not dissatisfied.

With the _Royal Fortune_, and the Brigantine, which they christened the
_Good Fortune_, they pushed towards the Latitude of _Deseada_, to look out
for Provisions, being very short again, and just to their Wish, Captain
_Hingstone_'s ill Fortune brought him in their Way, richly laden for
_Jamaica_; him they carried to _Berbudas_ and plundered; and stretching
back again to the _West-Indies_, they continually met with some Consignment
or other, (chiefly _French,)_ which stored them with Plenty of Provisions,
and recruited their starving Condition; so that stocked with this sort of
Ammunition, they began to think of something worthier their Aim, for these
Robberies that only supplied what was in constant Expenditure, by no Means
answered their Intentions; and accordingly they proceeded again for the
Coast of _Guiney_, where they thought to buy Gold-Dust very cheap. In their
Passage thither, they took Numbers of Ships of all Nations, some of which
they burnt or sunk, as the Carriage or Characters of the Masters displeased
them.