_Nicholas Butler_, who had remained with the Pyrates about 48 Hours, when
they took the _French_ Ships at _Whydah_, deposes, that in this Space the
Prisoner addressed him in the _French_ Language, several Times, deploring
the Wretchedness and ill Fortune of being confined in such Company.

The Prisoner desiring Liberty of two or three Questions, ask'd, whether or
no he had not expostulated with _Roberts_, for a Reason of his obliging
Surgeons to sign their Articles, when heretofore they did not; Whether he
had not expressed himself glad of having formerly escaped from them?
Whether he had not said, at taking the Ships in _Whydah_ Road, that he
could like the Sport, were it lawful? And whether if he had not told him,
should the Company discharge any Surgeon, that he would insist on it as his
Turn? The Deponent answered, Yes, to every Question separately; and
farther, that he believes _Scudamore_ had not seen _Wilson_ when he first
came and found him out of the _Elizabeth._

He added, in his own Defence, that being Surgeon with one _John Tarlton_,
of _Leverpool_, he was met a first Time on this Coast of _Guiney_, by
_Roberts_ the Pyrate; who, after a Day or two, told him, to his Sorrow,
that he was to stay there, and ordered him to fetch his Chest, (not
Medicines, as asserted,) which Opportunity he took to make his Escape; for
the Boat's Crew happening to consist of five _French_ and one _English_
Man, all as willing as himself, they agreed to push the Boat on Shore, and
trust themselves with the Negroes of Cape _Montzerado_: Hazardous, not only
in Respect of the dangerous Seas that run there, but the Inhumanity of the
Natives, who sometimes take a liking to humane Carcasses. Here he remained
five Months, till _Thomas Tarlton_, Brother to his Captain chanced to put
in the Road for Trade, to whom he represented his Hardships and starving
Condition; but was, in an unchristian Manner, both refused a Release of
this Captivity, or so much as a small Supply of Biscuit and salt Meat,
because, as he said, he had been among the Pyrates. A little Time after
this, the Master of a _French_ Ship paid a Ransom for him, and took him
off; but, by Reason of a nasty leperous Indisposition he had contracted by
hard and bad living, was, to his great Misfortune set ashore at _Sestos_
again, when Captain _Sharp_ met him, and generously procured his Release in
the Manner himself has related, and for which he stands infinitely
obliged.--That ill Luck threw him a second Time into the Pyrate's Hands, in
this Ship _Elizabeth_, where he met _Thomas Tarlton_, and thoughtlesly used
some Reproaches of him, for his severe Treatment at _Montzerado_; but
protests without Design his Words should have had so bad a Consequence; for
_Roberts_ took upon him, as a Dispenser of Justice, the Correction of Mr.
_Tarlton_, beating him unmercifully; and he hopes it will be belived,
contrary to any Intention of his it should so happen, because as a Stranger
he might be supposed to have no Influence, and believes there were some
other Motives for it.--He cannot remember he expressed himself glad to see
_Roberts_ this second Time, or that he dropped those Expressions about
_Comry_, as are sworn; but if immaturity of Judgment had occasioned him to
slip rash and inadvertent Words, or that he had paid any undue Compliments
to _Roberts_, it was to ingratiate himself, as every Prisoner did, for a
more civil Treatment, and in particular to procure his Discharge, which he
had been promised, and was afraid would have been revoked, if such a Person
as _Comry_ did not remain there to supply his Room; and of this, he said,
all the Gentlemen (meaning the Pyrates) could witness for him.