W_Hereas, by an Act of Assembly, made at a Session of Assembly, begun
at the Capital in _Williamsburgh_, the eleventh Day of _November_, in the
fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign, entituled, _An Act to encourage the
apprehending and destroying of Pyrates_: It is, amongst other Things
enacted, that all and every Person, or Persons, who, from and after the
fourteenth Day of _November_, in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighteen, and before the fourteenth Day of _November_, which
shall be in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and nineteen,
shall take any Pyrate, or Pyrates, on the Sea or Land, or in Case of
Resistance, shall kill any such Pyrate, or Pyrates, between the Degrees of
thirty four, and thirty nine, of Northern Latitude, and within one hundred
Leagues of the Continent of _Virginia_, or within the Provinces of
_Virginia_, or _North-Carolina_, upon the Conviction, or making due Proof
of the killing of all, and every such Pyrate, and Pyrates, before the
Governor and Council, shall be entitled to have, and receive out of the
publick Money, in the Hands of the Treasurer of this Colony, the several
Rewards following; that is to say, for _Edward Teach_, commonly call'd
Captain _Teach_, or _Black-Beard_, one hundred Pounds, for every other
Commander of a Pyrate Ship, Sloop, or Vessel, forty Pounds; for every
Lieutenant, Master, or Quarter-Master, Boatswain, or Carpenter, twenty
Pounds; for every other inferior Officer, sixteen Pounds, and for every
private Man taken on Board such Ship, Sloop, or Vessel, ten Pounds; and,
that for every Pyrate, which shall be taken by any Ship, Sloop or Vessel,
belonging to this Colony, or _North-Carolina_, within the Time aforesaid,
in any Place whatsoever, the like Rewards shall be paid according to the
Quality and Condition of such Pyrates. Wherefore, for the Encouragement of
all such Persons as shall be willing to serve his Majesty, and their
Country, in so just and honourable an Undertaking, as the suppressing a
Sort of People, who may be truly called Enemies to Mankind: I have thought
fit, with the Advice and Consent of his Majesty's Council, to issue this
Proclamation, hereby declaring, the said Rewards shall be punctually and
justly paid, in current Money of _Virginia_, according to the Directions of
the said Act. And, I do order and appoint this Proclamation, to be
published by the Sheriffs, at their respective County-Houses, and by all
Ministers and Readers, in the several Churches and Chappels, throughout
this Colony._

Given at our Council-Chamber at _Williamsburgh_, this 24th Day of
_November_, 1718, in the fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

GOD SAVE THE KING.

_A. SPOTSWOOD_.