It is no doubt, but many had Compassion for her, yet the Court could not
avoid finding her Guilty; for among other Things, one of the Evidences
against her, deposed, that being taken by _Rackam_, and detain'd some Time
on Board, he fell accidentally into Discourse with _Mary Read_, whom he
taking for a young Man, ask'd her, what Pleasure she could have in being
concerned in such Enterprizes, where her Life was continually in Danger, by
Fire or Sword; and not only so, but she must be sure of dying an
ignominious Death, if she should be taken alive?--She answer'd, that as to
hanging, she thought it no great Hardship, for, were it not for that, every
cowardly Fellow would turn Pyrate, and so infest the Seas, that Men of
Courage must starve:-- That if it was put to the Choice of the Pyrates,
they would not have the punishment less than Death, the Fear of which, kept
some dastardly Rogues honest; that many of those who are now cheating the
Widows and Orphans, and oppressing their poor Neighbours, who have no Money
to obtain Justice, would then rob at Sea, and the Ocean would be crowded
with Rogues, like the Land, and no Merchant would venture out; so that the
Trade, in a little Time, would not be worth following.

Being found quick with Child, as has been observed, her Execution was
respited, and it is possible she would have found Favour, but she was
seiz'd with a violent Fever, soon after her Tryal, of which she died in
Prison.

_The_ LIFE _of_ ANNE BONNY.

AS we have been more particular in the Lives of these two Women, than
those of other Pyrates, it is incumbent on us, as a faithful Historian, to
begin with their Birth. _Anne Bonny_ was born at a Town near _Cork_, in the
Kingdom of _Ireland_, her Father an Attorney at Law, but _Anne_ was not one
of his legitimate Issue, which seems to cross an old Proverb, which says,
_that Bastards have the best Luck_. Her Father was a Married Man, and his
Wife having been brought to Bed, contracted an Illness in her lying in, and
in order to recover her Health, she was advised to remove for Change of
Air; the Place she chose, was a few Miles distance from her Dwelling, where
her Husband's Mother liv'd. Here she sojourn'd some Time, her Husband
staying at Home, to follow his Affairs. The Servant-Maid, whom she left to
look after the House, and attend the Family, being a handsome young Woman,
was courted by a young Man of the same Town, who was a _Tanner_; this
_Tanner_ used to take his Opportunities, when the Family was out of the
Way, of coming to pursue his Courtship; and being with the Maid one Day as
she was employ'd in the Houshold Business, not having the Fear of God
before his Eyes, he takes his Opportunity, when her Back was turned, of
whipping three Silver Spoons into his Pocket. The Maid soon miss'd the
Spoons, and knowing that no Body had been in the Room, but herself and the
young Man, since she saw them last, she charged him with taking them; he
very stifly denied it, upon which she grew outragious, and threatned to go
to a Constable, in order to carry him before a Justice of Peace: These
Menaces frighten'd him out of his Wits, well knowing he could not stand
Search; wherefore he endeavoured to pacify her, by desiring her to examine
the Drawers and other Places, and perhaps she might find them; in this Time
he slips into another Room, where the Maid usually lay, and puts the Spoons
betwixt the Sheets, and then makes his Escape by a back Door, concluding
she must find them, when she went to Bed, and so next Day he might pretend
he did it only to frighten her, and the Thing might be laugh'd off for a
Jest.