From the Bar of _Charles-Town_, they sailed to _North-Carolina_; Captain
_Teach_ in the Ship, which they called the Man of War, Captain _Richards_
and Captain _Hands_ in the Sloops, which they termed Privateers, and
another Sloop serving them as a Tender. _Teach_ began now to think of
breaking up the Company, and securing the Money and the best of the Effects
for himself, and some others of his Companions he had most Friendship for,
and to cheat the rest: Accordingly, on Pretence of running into _Topsail_
Inlet to clean, he grounded his Ship, and then, as if it had been done
undesignedly, and by Accident; he orders _Hands_'s Sloop to come to his
Assistance, and get him off again, which he endeavouring to do, ran the
Sloop on Shore near the other, and so were both lost. This done, _Teach_
goes into the Tender Sloop, with forty Hands, and leaves the _Revenge_
there; then takes seventeen others and Marroons them upon a small sandy
Island, about a League from the Main, where there was neither Bird, Beast
or Herb for their Subsistance, and where they must have perished if Major
_Bonnet_ had not two Days after taken them off.

_Teach_ goes up to the Governor of _North-Carolina_, with about twenty of
his Men, surrender to his Majesty's Proclamation, and receive Certificates
thereof, from his Excellency; but it did not appear that their submitting
to this Pardon was from any Reformation of Manners, but only to wait a more
favourable Opportunity to play the same Game over again; which he soon
after effected, with greater Security to himself, and with much better
Prospect of Success, having in this Time cultivated a very good
understanding with _Charles Eden_, Esq; the Governor above mentioned.

The first Piece of Service this kind Governor did to _Black-Beard_, was, to
give him a Right to the Vessel which he had taken, when he was a pyrating
in the great Ship called the _Queen Ann's Revenge_; for which purpose, a
Court of Vice-Admiralty was held at _Bath-Town_; and, tho' _Teach_ had
never any Commission in his Life, and the Sloop belonging to the _English_
Merchants, and taken in Time of Peace; yet was she condemned as a Prize
taken from the _Spaniards_, by the said _Teach_. These Proceedings shew
that Governors are but Men.

Before he sailed upon his Adventures, he marry'd a young Creature of about
sixteen Years of Age, the Governor performing the Ceremony. As it is a
Custom to marry here by a Priest, so it is there by a Magistrate; and this,
I have been informed, made _Teach_'s fourteenth Wife, whereof, about a
dozen might be still living. His Behaviour in this State, was something
extraordinary; for, while his Sloop lay in _Okerecock_ Inlet, and he ashore
at a Plantation, where his Wife lived, with whom after he had lain all
Night, it was his Custom to invite five or six of his brutal Companions to
come ashore, and he would force her to prostitute her self to them all, one
after another, before his Face.