The _Swallow_ and _Weymouth_ fell in with the Continent at Cape
_Appollonia, Octo._ 20th, and there received the ungrateful News from one
Captain _Bird_; a Notice that awaken'd and put them on their Guard; but
they were far from expecting any Temerity should ever bring him a second
Time on the Coast, while they were there; therefore the _Swallow_ having
seen the _Weymouth_ into Cape _Corso_ Road _Nov._ 10th, she ply'd to
Windward as far as _Bassam_, rather as an Airing to recover a sickly Ship's
Company, and shew herself to the Trade, which was found every where
undisturb'd, and were, for that Reason, returning to her Consort, when
accidently meeting a _Portuguese_ Ship, she told her, that the Day before
she saw two Ships Chace into _Junk_, an _English_ Vessel, which she
believed must have fallen into their Hands. On this Story, the _Swallow_
clung her Wind, and endeavoured to gain that Place, but receiving soon
after (_Octo._ the 14th) a contrary Report from Captain _Plummer_, an
intelligent Man, in the _Jason_ of _Bristol_, who had come further to
Windward, and neither saw or heard any Thing of this; she turned her Head
down the second Time, anchored at Cape _Appollonia_ the 23d, at Cape _Tres
Puntas_ the 27th, and in _Corso_ Road _January_ the 7th, 1721-2.

They learned that their Consort the _Weymouth_, was, by the Assistance of
some Soldiers from the Castle, gone to Windward, to demand Restitution of
some Goods or Men belonging to the _African_ Company, that were illegally
detained by the _Dutch_ at _Des Minas_; and while they were regretting so
long a Separation, an Express came to General _Phips_, from _Axim_, the
9th, and followed by another from _Dixcove_, (an _English_ Factory,) with
Information that three Ships had chased and taken a Galley nigh _Axim_
Castle, and a trading Boat belonging to the Company: No doubt was made,
concerning what they were, it being taken for granted they were Pyrates,
and supposed to be the same that had the _August_ before infested the
Coast. The natural Result therefore, from these two Advices, was, to hasten
for _Whydah_; for it was conclued the Prizes they had taken, had informed
them how nigh the _Swallow_ was, and withal, how much better in Health than
she had been for some Months past; so that unless they were very mad
indeed, they would (after being discovered) make the best of their Way for
_Whydah_, and secure the Booty there, without which, their Time and
Industry had been entirely lost; most of the Gold lying in that Corner.

The _Swallow_ weighed from _Cape-Corso, January_ the 10th, but was retarded
by waiting some Hours on the _Margaret_, a Company's Ship, at _Accra_,
again on the _Portugal_, and a whole Day at _Apong_, on a Person they used
to stile _Miss Betty_: A Conduct that Mr. _Phips_ blamed, when he heard the
Pyrates were miss'd at _Whydah_, altho' he had given it as his Opinion,
they could not be passed by, and intimated, that to stay a few Hours would
prove no Prejudice.