_Forasmuch as in open Contempt and Violation of the Laws of your Country,
to which ye ought to have been subject_, _ye have all of you been wickedly
united and articled together, for the Annoyance and Destruction of his
Majesty's trading Subjects by Sea; and in Conformity to so wicked an
Agreement and Association, ye have been twice lately down this Coast of_
Africa, _once in_ August, _and a second Time in_ January _last, spoiling
and destroying many Goods and Vessels of his Majesty's Subjects, and other
trading Nations._

_Particularly ye stand indicted at the Information and Instance of Captain_
Chaloner Ogle, _as Traytors, Robbers, Pyrates, and common Enemies to
Mankind._

_For that on the_ 10_th of_ February _last, in a Ship ye were possess'd of
called the_ Royal Fortune, _of_ 40 _Guns, ye did maintain a hostile Defence
and Resistance for some Hours, against his Majesty's Ship the_ Swallow,
_nigh Cape_ Lopez _Bay, on the Southern Coast of_ Africa.

_That this Fight and insolent Resistance against the King's Ship, was made,
not only without any Pretence of Authority, more than that of your own
private depraved Wills, but was done also under a black Flag, flagrantly by
that, denoting your selves common Robbers and Traitors, Opposers and
Violators of the Laws._

_And lastly, that in this Resistance, ye were all of you Voluntiers, and
did, as such, contribute your utmost Efforts, for disabling and distressing
the aforesaid King's Ship, and deterring his Majesty's Servants therein,
from their Duty._

To which they severally pleaded, _Not Guilty._

* * *

Whereupon the Officers of his Majesty's Ship, the _Swallow_, were called
again, and testified as follows.

That they had seen all the Prisoners now before the Court, and knew them to
be the same which were taken out of one or other of the Pyrate Ships,
_Royal Fortune_ or _Ranger_, and verily believe them to be those taken out
of the _Royal Fortune._

That the Prisoners were possess'd of a Ship of 40 Guns, called the _Royal
Fortune_, and were at an Anchor under Cape _Lopez_, on the Coast of
_Africa_, with two others: When his Majesty's Ship the _Swallow_, (to which
the Deponents belong'd, and were Officers,) stood in for the Place, on
_Saturday_ the 10th of _February_ 1721-2: The largest had a Jack, Ensign
and Pendant flying, (being this _Royal Fortune_,) who on Sight of them, had
their Boats passing and repassing, from the other two, which they supposed
to be with Men: The Wind not favouring the aforesaid King's Ship, she was
obliged to make two Trips to gain nigh enough the Wind, to fetch in with
the Pyrates; and being at length little more than random Shot from them,
they found she slipped her Cable, and got under Sail.

At Eleven, the Pyrate was within Pistol-Shot, a Breast of them, with a
black Flag, and Pendant hoisted at their Main-topmast Head. The Deponents
say, they then struck the _French_ Ensign that had continued hoisted at
their Staff all the Morning till then; and display'd the King's Colours,
giving her, at the same Time, their Broadside, which was immediately
returned.