After this, a Counsel of War was called over a large Bowl of Punch, at
which it was proposed to chuse a Commander; the Election was soon over, for
it fell upon _Davis_ by a great Majority of _legal Pollers_, there was no
Scrutiny demanded, for all acquiesced in the Choice: As soon as he was
possess'd of his Command, he drew up Articles, which were signed and sworn
to by himself and the rest, then he made a short Speech, the sum of which,
was, a Declaration of War against the whole World.

After this they consulted about a proper Place where they might clean their
Sloop, a light Pair of Heels being of great Use either to take, or escape
being taken; for this purpose they made Choice of _Coxon_'s _Hole_, at the
East End of the Island of _Cuba_, a Place where they might secure
themselves from Surprize, the Entrance being so narrow, that one Ship might
keep out a hundred.

Here they cleaned with much Difficulty, for they had no Carpenter in their
Company, a Person of great Use upon such Exigencies; from hence they put to
Sea, making to the North-Side of the Island of _Hispaniola_. The first Sail
which fell in their Way, was a _French_ Ship of twelve Guns; it must be
observed, that _Davis_ had but thirty five Hands, yet Provisions began to
grow short with him; wherefore he attacked this Ship, she soon struck, and
he sent twelve of his Hands on Board of her, in order to plunder: This was
no sooner done, but a Sail was spied a great Way to Windward of them; they
enquired of the _French_ Man what she might be, he answered, that he had
spoke with a Ship, the Day before, of 24 Guns and 60 Men, and he took this
to be the same.

_Davis_ then proposed to his Men to attack her, telling them, she would be
a rare Ship for their Use, but they looked upon it to be an extravagant
Attempt, and discovered no Fondness for it, but he assured them he had a
Stratagem in his Head would make all safe; wherefore he gave Chace, and
ordered his Prize to do the same. The Prize being a slow Sailor, _Davis_
first came up with the Enemy, and standing along Side of them, shewed his
pyratical Colours: They, much surpriz'd, called to _Davis_, telling him,
they wondered at his Impudence in venturing to come so near them, and
ordered him to strike; but he answered, that he intended to keep them in
Play, till his Consort came up, who was able to deal with them, and that if
they did not strike to him, they should have but bad Quarters; whereupon he
gave them a Broad-Side, which they returned.