I return to the Pyrates, who, after they had sent away the Gallivats
People, resolved to cruise to the Southward; and the next Day, between
_Goa_ and _Carwar_, heard several Guns, which brought them to an Anchor,
and they sent their Boat on the Scent, who returned about two in the
Morning, and brought Word of two Grabs lying at Anchor in the Road. They
weighed and ran towards the Bay, till Day-Light gave the Grabs Sight of
them, and was but just Time enough to get under _India Diva_ Castle, out of
their reach; this displeased the Pyrates the more, in that they wanted
Water; and some were for making a Descent that Night and taking the Island,
but it not being approved of by the Majority, they proceeded to the
Southward, and took next in their Way, a small Ship out of _Onnore_ Road,
with only a _Dutch_ Man and two _Portuguese_ on Board. They sent one of
these on Shore to the Captain, to acquaint him, if he would supply them
with some Water, and fresh Provisions, he should have his Ship again; and
the Master returned for answer, by his Mate _Frank Harmless_, that if they
would deliver him Possession over the Bar, he would comply with their
Request; the Proposal the Mate thought was collusive, and they rather
jump'd into _Harmless_'s Opinion, (who very honestly entered with them,)
and resolved to seek Water at the _Laccadeva_ Islands; so having sent the
other Persons on Shore, with threats, that he should be the last Man they
would give Quarter too, (by Reason of this uncivil Usage;) they put
directly for the Islands, and arrived there in three Days: Where being
informed by a Menchew they took (with the Governor of _Canwars_ Pass,) of
there being no Anchor-Ground among them, and _Melinda_ being the next
convenient Island, they sent their Boats on Shore, to see if there was any
Water, and whether it was inhabited or not; who returned with an Answer to
their Satisfaction, _viz._ that there was abundance of good Water, and many
Houses, but deserted by the Men, who had fled to the neighbouring Islands
on the Approach of Ships, and left only the Women and Children to guard one
another. The Women they forced in a Barbarous Manner to their Lusts, and to
require them, destroyed their Cocoa Trees, and fired several of their
Houses and _Churches_. (I suppose built by the _Portuguese_, who formerly
used there, in their Voyages to _India_.)

While they were at this Island, they lost three or four Anchors, by the
Rockyness of the Ground, Freshness of Winds, and at last were forced thence
by a harder Gale than ordinary, leaving 70 People, Blacks and Whites, and
most of their Water Casks: In ten Days they regained the Island again,
filled their Water, and took the People on Board.