T_HIS Court having taken into their Consideration the great Service
lately done to this Province in particular, as well as to all other his
Majesty's good Subjects in general, by Captain_ Peter Solgard, _Commander
of his Majesty's Ship the_ Greyhound, _the Station Ship of the Province,
who lately in a Cruize upon this Coast, in due Execution and Discharge of
his Duty, upon Intelligence given him, sought for, pursued and engaged two
Pyrate Sloops, commanded by one_ Low, _(a notorious and inhumane Pyrate,)
one of which Sloops he took, after a resolute Resistance, and very much
shattered the other, who by the Favour of the Night escaped. Twenty six of
which Pyrates so taken, being lately executed at_ Rhode Island, _not only
eased this City and Province of a very great Trouble, but of a very
considerable Expence_, &c. _It is therefore resolved (_Nemine
Contradicente_) that this Corporation do present the said Captain_ Solgard
_with the Freedom of this Corporation, as a Mark of the great Esteem they
have for his Person, as well as for the aforesaid great and good Services;
and that the Seal of the said Freedom be enclosed in a Gold Box; that Mr._
Recorder _and Mr._ Bickley _do draw the Draught of the said Freedom,
signifying therein, the grateful Sense of this Corporation, for so signal a
Service to the Publick, and Benefit and Advantage of Mankind. That
Alderman_ Kip, _and Alderman_ Cruger, _do prepare the said Box; that the
Arms of the Corporation be engraved on one Side thereof, and a
Representation of the Engagement on the other, with this Motto_, (viz.)
[Quesitos Humani Generos Hostes Debellare superbum, 10 Junii, 1723.] _That
the Town-Clerk cause the same Freedom to be handsomly engrossed on
Parchment, and that the whole Corporation do wait upon him, to present the
same._

_By Order of the Common-Council._ William Sharpas, _Clerk._

The Preamble of Captain _Peter Solgard_'s Copy of his Freedom.

_Robert Walter_, Esq; Mayor, and the Aldermen of the City of
_New-York._

City of _New-York, ss._