_William Hewet_, late of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_John Levit_, late of _North-Carolina_, Mariner.

_William Livers_, alias _Evis_.

_John Brierly_, alias _Timberhead_, late of _Bath-Town_ in _North
Carolina_, Mariner.

_Robert Boyd_, late of _Bath-Town_ aforesaid, Mariner.

*_Rowland Sharp_, of _Bath-Town_, Mariner.

*_Jonathan Clarke_, late of _Charles-Town, South Carolina_, Mariner.

*_Thomas Gerrard_, late of _Antegoa_, Mariner.

* * *

And all, except the three last, and _Thomas Nicholas_, were found Guilty,
and received Sentence of Death.

They were most of them try'd upon two Indictments, as follows.

* * *

T_HE Jurors for our Sovereign Lord the King, do upon their Oath
present, that_ Stede Bonnet, _late of_ Barbadoes, _Mariner_, Robert Tucker,
&c. &c. _The_ 2_d Day of_ August, _in the fifth Year of the Reign of our
Sovereign Lord_ George, &c. _By Force of Arms upon the High-Sea, in a
certain Place called Cape_ James, &c. _did pyratically, and felloniously
set upon, break,_ _board, and enter, a certain Merchant Sloop, called the_
Frances, Peter Manwaring _Commander, by Force_, &c. _upon the High-Sea, in
a certain Place, called Cape_ James, alias _Cape_ Inlopen, _about two Miles
distant from the Shore, in the Lattitude of_ 39, _or thereabouts; and
within the Jurisdiction of the Court of Vice-Admiralty, of_ South-Carolina,
_being a Sloop of certain Persons_, (_to the Jurors, unknown_) _and then,
and there, pyratically, and felloniously did make an Assault, in, and upon
the said_ Peter Manwaring, _and others his Mariners_, (_whose Names to the
Jurors aforesaid, are unknown,) in the same Sloop, against the Peace of
God, and of our said now Sovereign Lord the King, then, and there being,
pyratically and felloniously, did put the aforesaid_ Peter Manwaring, _and
others, his Mariners, of the same Sloop, in the Sloop aforesaid, then
being, in corporal Fear of their Lives, then and there, in the Sloop
aforesaid, upon the_ High-Sea, _in the Place aforesaid, called Cape_ James,
alias _Cape_ Inlopen, _about two Miles from the Shore, in the Lattitude of_
39, _or thereabouts, as aforesaid, and within the Jurisdiction aforesaid;
pyratically, and felloniously, did steal, take, and carry away the said
Merchant Sloop, called the_ Frances, _and also twenty six Hogsheads_, &c.
&c. &c. _being found in the aforesaid Sloop, in the Custody and Possession
of the said_ Peter Manwaring, _and others, his Mariners of the said Sloop,
and from their Custody and Possession, then and there, upon the High-Sea
aforesaid, called Cape_ James, alias _Cape_ Inlopen, _as aforesaid, and
within the Jurisdiction aforesaid, against the Peace of our now Sovereign
Lord the King, his Crown and Dignity_.

This was the Form of the Indictments they were arraigned upon, and tho'
they might have proved several more Facts upon the major Part of the Crew,
the Court thought fit to prosecute but two; the other was for seizing in a
pyratical and felonious Manner, the Sloop _Fortune, Thomas Read_ Commander;
which Indictment running in the same Form with the above-mentioned, it will
be unnecessary to say more of it.

All the Prisoners arraigned, pleaded Not Guilty, and put themselves upon
their Tryals, except _James Wilson_, and _John Levit_, who pleaded Guilty
to both Indictments, and _Daniel Perry_, to one only. The Major would have
gone through both the Indictments at once, which the Court not admitting,
he pleaded Not Guilty to both Indictments, but being convicted of one, he
retracted his former Plea to the second Indictment, and pleaded Guilty to
it.