This, however, hinder'd the _Swallow_'s catching them at _Whydah_, for the
Pyrates came into that Road, with a fresh Gale of Wind, the same Day the
_Swallow_ was at _Apong_, and sail'd the 13th of _January_ from thence,
that she arrived the 17th. She gained Notice of them by a _French_ Shallop
from _Grand Papa_, the 14th at Night, and from _Little Papa_ next Morning
by a _Dutch_ Ship; so that the Man of War was on all Sides, as she thought,
sure of her Purchase, particularly when she made the Ships, and discovered
three of them to get under Sail immediately at Sight of her, making Signals
to one another, as tho' they designed a Defence; but they were found to be
three _French_ Ships; and those at Anchor, _Portuguese_ and _English_, all
honest Traders, who had been ransack'd and ransom'd.

This Disappointment chagreen'd the Ship's Company, who were very intent
upon their Market; which was reported to be an Arm-Chest full of Gold, and
kept with three Keys; tho' in all liklyhood, had they met with them in that
open Road, one or both would have made their Escapes; or if they had
thought sit to have fought, an Emulation in their Defence would probably
have made it desperate.

While they were contemplating on the Matter, a Letter was received from Mr.
_Baldwin_, (Governor here for the Company,) signifying, that the Pyrates
were at _Jaquin_, seven Leagues lower. The _Swallow_ weighed at two next
Morning, _January_ the 16th, and got to _Jaquin_ by Day-Light, but to no
other End, than frightening the Crews of two _Portuguese_ Ships on Shore,
who took her for the Pyrate that had struck such Terror at _Whydah_: She
returned therefore that Night, and having been strengthened with thirty
Voluntiers, _English_ and _French_, the discarded Crews of the _Porcupine_,
and the _French_ Ship they had carried from hence, she put to Sea again
_January_ the 19th, conjecturing, that either _Calabar, Princes_, the River
_Gabone_, Cape _Lopez_, or _Annabona_, must be touched at for Water and
Refreshment, tho' they should resolve to leave the Coast. As to the former
of those Places, I have before observed, it was hazardous to think of, or
rather impracticable; _Princes_ had been a sower Grape to them, but being
the first in the Way, she came before the Harbour the 29th, where learning
no News, without loosing Time, steered for the River _Gabone_, and anchored
at the Mouth of it _February_ the 1st.