_Yeats_ came into _North Edisto_ River, about ten Leagues Southward of
_Charles-Town_, and sent an Express to the Governor, to know if he and his
Comrades might have the Benefit of his Majesty's Pardon, and they would
surrender themselves to his Mercy, with the Sloops and Negroes; which being
granted, they all came up and received Certificates; and Captain
_Thompson_, from whom the Negroes were taken, had them restored to him, for
the Use of his Owners.

_Vane_ cruised some Time off the Bar, in hopes to catch _Yeats_ at his
coming out again, but therein he was disappointed; however, he
unfortunately for them, took two Ships from _Charles-Town_, bound home to
_England_. It happen'd that just at this Time two Sloops well mann'd and
arm'd, were equipp'd to go after a Pyrate, which the Governor of
_South-Carolina_ was informed, lay then in Cape _Fear_ River, a cleaning:
But Colonel _Rhet_, who commanded the Sloops, meeting with one of the Ships
that _Vane_ had plundered, going back over the Bar, for such Necessaries as
had been taken from her, and she giving the Colonel an Account of her being
taken by the Pyrate _Vane_, and also, that some of her Men, while they were
Prisoners on Board of him, had heard the Pyrates say, they should clean in
one of the Rivers to the Southward; he altered his first Design, and
instead of standing to the Northward, in pursuit of the Pyrate in Cape
_Fear_ River, he turns to the Southward after _Vane_; who had ordered such
Reports to be given out, on purpose to send any Force that should come
after him, upon a wrong Scent; for in Reality he stood away to the
Northward, so that the Pursuit proved to be the contrary Way.

Colonel _Rhet_'s speaking with this Ship, was the most unlucky Thing that
could have happened, because it turned him out of the Road, which in all
Probability, would have brought him into the Company of _Vane_, as well as
of the Pyrate he went after; and so they might have been both destroy'd;
whereas, by the Colonel's going a different Way, he not only lost the
Opportunity of meeting with one, but if the other had not been infatuated,
to lye six Weeks together at Cape _Fear_, he would have missed of him
likewise: However, the Colonel having searched the Rivers and Inlets, as
directed, for several Days, without Success, at length sailed in
Prosecution of his first Design, and met with the Pyrate accordingly, whom
he fought and took, as has been before spoken of, in the History of Major
_Bonnet_.

Captain _Vane_ went into an Inlet to the Northward, where he met with
Captain _Thatch_, or _Teach_, otherwise call'd _Black-beard_, whom he
saluted (when he found who he was) with his great Guns, loaded with Shot,
(as is the Custom among Pyrates when they meet) which are fired wide, or up
into the Air: _Black-beard_ answered the Salute in the same Manner, and
mutual Civilities passed for some Days; when about the Beginning of
_October, Vane_ took Leave, and sailed further to the Northward.