Given at our Court, at _Hampton-Court_, the fifth Day of
_September_, 1717, in the fourth Year of our Regin.

God save the KING.

Before Governor _Rogers_ went over, the Proclamation was sent to them,
which they took as _Teague_ took the Covenant, that is, they made Prize of
the Ship and Proclamation too; however, they sent for those who were out a
Cruising, and called a general Council, but there was so much Noise and
Glamour, that nothing could be agreed on; some were for fortifying the
Island, to stand upon their own Terms, and Treating with the Government
upon the Foot of a Commonwealth; others were also for strengthening the
Island for their own Security, but were not strenuous for these
Punctillios, so that they might have a general Pardon, without being
obliged to make any Restitution, and to retire, with all their Effects, to
the neighbouring _British_ Plantations.

But Captain _Jennings_, who was their Commadore, and who always bore a
great Sway among them, being a Man of good Understanding, and good Estate,
before this Whim took him of going a Pyrating, resolved upon surrendering,
without more ado, to the Terms of the Proclamation, which so disconcerted
all their Measures, that the _Congress_ broke up very abruptly without
doing any Thing; and presently _Jennings_, and by his Example, about 150
more, came in to the Governor of _Bermudas_, and had their Certificates,
tho' the greatest Part of them returned again, like the Dog to the Vomit.
The Commanders who were then in the Island, besides Captain _Jennings_
abovementioned, I think were these, _Benjamin Hornigold, Edward Teach, John
Martel, James Fife, Christopher Winter, Nicholas Brown, Paul Williams,
Charles Bellamy, Oliver la Bouche, _Major_ Penner, Ed. England, T. Burgess,
Tho. Cocklyn, R. Sample, Charles Vane_, and two or three others:
_Hornigold, Williams, Burgess _and_ la Bouche_ were afterwards cast away;
_Teach_ and _Penner_ killed, and their Crews taken; _James Fife_ killed by
his own Men; _Martel_'s Crew destroyed, and he forced on an uninhabited
Island; _Cocklyn, Sample_ and _Vane_ hanged; _Winter_ and _Brown_
surrendered to the _Spaniards_ at _Cuba_, and _England_ lives now at
_Madagascar_.

In the Month of _May_ or _June_ 1718, Captain _Rogers_ arrived at his
Government, with two of his Majesty's Ships, and found several of the
abovesaid Pyrates there, who upon the coming of the Men of War, all
surrendered to the Pardon, except _Charles Vane_ and his Crew, which
happened after this Manner.

I have before described the Harbour to have two Inlets, by Means of a small
Island lying at the Mouth of it; at one of which, both the Men of War
entered, and left the other open, so that _Vane_ slip'd his Cable, set Fire
to a large Prize they had there, and resolutely put out, firing at the Man
of War as he went off.

As soon as Captain _Rogers_ had settled himself in his Government, he built
a Fort for his Defence, and garrisoned it with the People he found upon the
Island; the _quondam_ Pyrates, to the Number of 400, he formed into
Companies, appointed Officers of those whom he most confided in, and then
set about to settle a Trade with the _Spaniards_, in the Gulf of _Mexico_;
in one of which Voyages, Captain _Burgess_ abovementioned, died, and
Captain _Hornigold_, another of the famous Pyrates, was cast away upon
Rocks, a great Way from Land, and perished, but five of his Men got into a
Canoe and were saved.