But this was not look'd upon as a sufficient Satisfaction for the Injury
they received, therefore most of the Company were for burning the Town,
which _Roberts_ said he would yield to, if any Means could be proposed of
doing it without their own Destruction, for the Town had a securer
Scituation than the Fort, a thick Wood coming almost close to it, affording
Cover to the Defendants, who under such an Advantage, he told them, it was
to be fear'd, would fire and stand better to their Arms; besides, that bare
Houses would be but a slender Reward for their Trouble and Loss. This
prudent Advice prevailed; however, they mounted the _French_ Ship, they
seiz'd at this Place, with 12 Guns, and light'ned her, in order to come up
to the Town, the Water being shoal, and battered down several Houses; after
which they all returned on Board, gave back the _French_ Ship to those that
had most Right to her, and sailed out of the Harbour by the light of two
_Portuguese_ Ships, which they were pleased to set on Fire there.

_Roberts_ stood away to the Southward, and met with a _Dutch Guiney_ Man,
which he made Prize of, but after having plundered her, the Skipper had his
Ship again: Two Days after, he took an _English_ Ship, called the
_Experiment_, Captain _Cornet_, at _Cape Lopez_, the Men went all into the
Pyrate Service, and having no Occasion for the Ship, they burnt her, and
then steered for St. _Thome_, but meeting with nothing in their Way, they
sailed for _Annabona_, and there water'd, took in Provisions, and put it to
a Vote of the Company, whether their next Voyage should be, to the
_East-Indies_, or to _Brasil_; the latter being resolved on, they sailed
accordingly, and in 28 Days arrived at _Ferdinando_, an uninhabited Island,
on that Coast: Here they water'd, boot-top'd their Ship, and made ready for
the designed Cruise.

Now that we are upon this Coast, I think it will be the proper Place to
present our Readers with a Description of this Country, and some ingenious
Remarks of a Friend, how beneficial a Trade might be carried on here by our
_West-India_ Merchants, at a little Hazard.

A DESCRIPTION OF _BRASIL_, &c.

B_RASIL_ (a Name signifying the holy Cross) was discovered for the
King of _Portugal_, by _Alvarez Cabral, Ann. Dom._ 1501. extending almost
from the _Æquinoctial_ to 28° South. The Air is temperate and cool, in
comparison of the _West-Indies_, from stronger Breezes and an opener
Country, which gives less Interruption to the Winds.

The northernmost Part of it stretching about 180 Leagues, (a fine fertile
Country,) was taken from the _Portuguese_ by the _Dutch West-India_
Company, _Anno._ 1637 or thereabouts; but the Conquerors, as is natural
where there is little or no Religion subsisting, made such heavy Exactions
on the _Portuguese_, and extended such Cruelty to the Natives, that
prepared them both easily to unite for a Revolt, facilitated by the _Dutch_
Mismanagement: For the States being at this Time very intent on their
_India_ Settlements, not only recalled Count _Morrice_ their Governor, but
neglected Supplies to their Garrisons; however, tho' the others were
countenanced with a Fleet from _Portugal_, and had the Affection of the
Natives, yet they found Means to withstand and struggle with this superior
Power, from 1643 to 1660, and then was wholly abandoned by them, on
Articles dishonourable to the _Portuguese_, viz.