Here are some Tamarind Trees; another called _Cola_, whose Fruit, or Nut
(about twice the Bigness of a Chestnut, and bitter) is chewed by the
_Portugueze_, to give a sweet Gust to their Water which they drink; but
above all, I was shewn the Bark of one (whose Name I do not know) gravely
affirm'd to have a peculiar Property of enlarging the Virile Member; I am
not fond of such Conceits, nor believe it in the Power of any Vegetables,
but must acknowledge, I have seen Sights of this kind among the Negroes
very extraordinary; yet, that there may be no Wishes among the Ladies for
the Importation of this Bark, I must acquaint them, that they are found to
grow less merry, as they encrease in Bulk. I had like to have forgot their
Cinnamon Trees; there is only one Walk of them, and is the Entrance of the
Governor's Villa; they thrive extreemly well, and the Bark not inferior to
our Cinnamon from _India_; why they and other Spice, in a Soil so proper,
receive no farther Cultivation, is, probably, their Suspicion, that so rich
a Produce, might make some potent Neighbour take a Fancy to the Island.

They have two Winters, or rather Springs, and two Summers: Their Winters,
which are the rainy Seasons, come in _September_ and _February_, or
_March_, and hold two Months, returning that Fatness and generative Power
to the Earth, as makes it yield a double Crop every Year, with little Sweat
or Labour.
_Hic Ver Assiduum atque Alienis Mensibus Æstas --Bis gravidæ
Pecudes, bis Pomis utilis arbos_.

Their first coming is with _Travado_'s, _i. e._ sudden and hard Gusts of
Wind, with Thunder, Lightning and heavy Showers, but short; and the next
new or full Moon at those Times of the Year, infallibly introduces the
Rains, which once begun, fall with little Intermission, and are observed
coldest in _February_. Similar to these are rainy Seasons also over all the
Coast of _Africa_: If there may be allowed any general Way of calculating
their Time, they happen from the Course of the Sun, as it respects the
_Æquinoctial_ only; for if these _Æquinoxes_ prove rainy Seasons all over
the World (as I am apt to think they are) whatever secret Cause operates
with that Station of the Sun to produce them, will more effectually do it
in those vicine Latitudes; and therefore, as the Sun advances, the Rains
are brought on the _Whydah_ and Gold Coast, by _April_, and on the
Windwardmost Part of _Guiney_ by _May_: The other Season of the Sun's
returning to the Southward, make them more uncertain and irregular in
Northern _Africa_; but then to the Southward again, they proceed in like
manner, and are at Cape _Lopez_ in _October_, at _Angola_ in _November_,
&c.