_I say, 'tis strange that a few Pyrates should ravage the Seas for Years,
without ever being light upon, by any of our Ships of War; when in the mean
Time, they (the Pyrates) shall take Fleets of Ships; it looks as if one was
much more diligent in their Affairs, than the other. _Roberts_ and his
Crew, alone, took 400 Sail, before he was destroy'd._

_This Matter, I may probably set right another Time, and only observe for
the present, that the Pyrates at Sea, have the same Sagacity with Robbers
at Land; as the latter understand what Roads are most frequented, and where
it is most likely to meet with Booty, so the former know what Latitude to
lie in, in order to intercept Ships; and as the Pyrates happen to be in
want of Provisions, Stores, or any particular Lading, they cruise
accordingly for such Ships, and are morally certain of meeting with them;
and by the same Reason, if the Men of War cruise in those Latitudes, they
might be as sure of finding the Pyrates, as the Pyrates are to find the
Merchant Ships; and if the Pyrates are not to be met with by the Men of War
in such a Latitude, then surely down the same Latitude may the Merchant
Ships arrive safely to their Port._

_To make this a little plainer to my Country Readers, I must observe that
all our outward bound Ships, sometime after they leave the Land, steer into
the Latitude of the Place they are bound to; if to the _West-India_
Islands, or any Part of the Main of _America_, as _New-York_,
_New-England_, _Virginia_, _&c._ because the Latitude is the only Certainty
in those Voyages to be found, and then they sail due West, till they come
to their Port, without altering their Course. In this West Way lie the
Pyrates, whether it be to _Virginia_, _&c._ or _Nevis_, _St. Christophers_,
_Montserat_, _Jamaica_, _&c._ so that if the Merchant Ships bound thither,
do not fall a Prey to them one Day, they must another: Therefore I say, if
the Men of War take the same Track, the Pyrates must unavoidably fall into
their Mouths, or be frighted away, for where the Game is, there will the
Vermin be; if the latter should be the Case, the trading Ships, as I said
before, will pass unmolested and safe, and the Pyrates be reduced to take
Refuge in some of their lurking Holes about the uninhabited Islands, where
their Fate would be like that of the Fox in his Den, if they should venture
out, they would be hunted and taken, and if they stay within they must
starve._