For Proof of this, I shall lay down the following Observations as certain
Facts. That in the Rivers of _Gambia_ and _Sierraleon_, in the Straits and
Channels of _Benin_, and in general along the whole Coast, the Flowings are
regular on the Shores, with this Difference; that, in the abovemention'd
Rivers, and in the Channels of _Benin_, where the Shore contract the Waters
into a narrow Compass, the Tides are strong and high, as well as regular;
but on the dead Coast, where it makes an equal Reverberation, slow and low,
(not to above two or three Foot,) increasing as you advance towards
_Benin_; and this is farther evident in that at Cape _Corso, Succonda_ and
_Commenda_, and where the Land rounds and gives any Stop, the Tides flow
regularly to four Foot and upwards; when on an evener Coast, (tho' next
adjoining,) they shall not exceed two or three Foot; and ten Leagues out at
Sea, (where no such Interruption is,) they become scarcely, if at all,
perceptible.

What I would deduce from this, besides a Confirmation of that ingenious
Theory of the Tides, by Captain _Halley_; is first, that the Ships bound to
_Angola, Cabenda_, and other Places on the Southern Coast of _Africa_,
should cross the _Æquinoctial_ from Cape _Palmas_, and run into a Southern
Latitude, without keeping too far to the Westward; and the Reason seems
plain, for if you endeavour to cross it about the Islands, you meet Calms,
southerly Winds and opposite Currents; and if too far to the Westward, the
trade Winds are strong and unfavourable; for it obliges you to stand into
28 or 30° Southern Latitude, till they are variable.

Secondly, On the Northern Side of _Guiney_, if Ships are bound from the
_Gold-Coast_ to _Sierraleon, Gambia_, or elsewhere to Windward, considering
the Weakness of these Currents, and the Favourableness of Land Breezes, and
Southerly in the Rains, Turnadoes, and even of the Trade Wind, when
a-breast of Cape _Palmas_, it is more expeditious to pursue the Passage
this Way, than by a long perambulatory Course of 4 or 500 Leagues to the
Westward, and as many more to the Northward, which must be before a Wind
can be obtained, that could recover the Coast.

Lastly, it is, in a great Measure, owning to this want of Inlets, and the
Rivers being small and unnavigable, that the Seas rebound with so dangerous
a Surff thro' the whole Continent.