The Pyrates detained some Officers and Men belonging to Captain _Mackra_,
and having repaired the Damages received in their Rigging, they sailed for
_India_. The Day before they made Land, saw two Ships to the Eastward, who
at first Sight, they took to be _English_, and ordered one of the
Prisoners, who had been an Officer with Captain _Mackra_, to tell them the
private Signals between the Company's Ships, the Captain swearing he would
cut him in pound Pieces, if he did not do it immediately; but unable, was
forced to bear their Scurility, till they came up with them, and found they
were two _Moor_ Ships from _Muscat_, with Horses; they brought the Captain
of them, and Merchants, on Board, torturing them, and rifling the Ships, in
order to discover Riches, as believing they came from _Mocha_; but being
baulked in their Expectation, and next Morning seeing Land, and at the same
Time a Fleet in Shore plying to Windward, they were puzzled how to dispose
of them; to let them go, was to discover and ruin the Voyage, and it was
cruel to sink the Men and Horses with the Ships, (as many of them were
inclined to,) therefore, as a Medium, they brought them to an Anchor, threw
all their Sails over-board, and cut one of the Ships Masts half through.

While they lay at an Anchor, and were all the next Day employed in taking
out Water, one of the aforementioned Fleet bore towards them with _English_
Colours, answered with a red Ensign from the Pyrates, but did not speak
with one another. At Night they left the _Muscatt_ Ships, weighed with the
Sea Wind, and stood to the Northward after this Fleet: About four next
Morning, just as they were getting under sail, with the Land Wind, the
Pyrates came amongst them, made no stop, but fired their great and small
Guns very briskly, till they got through; and as Day-Light cleared, were in
a great Consternation in their Minds, having all along taken them for
_Angria_'s Fleet; what to do was the Point, whether run or pursue? They
were sensible of their Inferiority of Strength, having no more than 300 Men
in both Ships, and 40 of them Negroes; besides, the _Victory_ had then four
Pumps at Work, and must inevitably been lost before, had it not been for
some Hand-Pumps, and several pair of Standards brought out of the
_Cassandra_, to relieve and strengthen her; but observing the Indifferency
of the Fleet, chose rather to chase than run; and thought the best Way to
save themselves, was to play at Bullbeggar with the Enemy: So they came up
with the Sea Wind, about Gun-Shot to Leeward, the great Ships of the Fleet
a-head, and some others a-stern; which latter they took for Fire-Vessels:
And these a-head gaining from them by cutting away their Boats, they could
do nothing more than continue their Course all Night, which they did, and
found them next Morning out of Sight, excepting a Ketch and some few
Gallivats, (_small sort of Vessels something like the Feluccas of the_
Mediterranean, _and hoists, like them, triangular Sails_.) They bore down,
which the Ketch perceiving, transported her People on Board a Gallivat, and
set fire to her; the other proved too nimble and made off. The same Day
they chased another Gallivat and took her, being come from _Gogo_, bound
for _Callicut_ with Cotton. Of these Men they enquired concerning the
Fleet, supposing they must have been in it; and altho' they protested they
had not seen a Ship or Boat since they left _Gogo_, and pleaded very
earnestly for Favour; yet they threw all their Cargo over-board, and
squezed their Joints in a Vice, to extort Confession: But they entirely
ignorant of who or what this Fleet should be, were obliged not only to
sustain this Torment, but next Day a fresh easterly Wind having split the
Gallivats Sails, they put her Company into the Boat, with nothing but a
Trysail, no Provisions, and only four Gallons of Water, (half of it Salt,)
and then out of Sight of Land, to shift for themselves.