The last Day of _July_, our Rovers with the Vessels last taken, left
_Delaware_ Bay, and sailed to Cape _Fear_ River, where they staid too long
for their Safety, for the Pyrate Sloop which they now new named the _Royal
James_, proved very leaky, so that they were obliged to remain here almost
two Months, to refit and repair their Vessel: They took in this River a
small Shallop, which they ripped up to mend the Sloop, and retarded the
further Prosecution of their Voyage, as before mentioned, till the News
came to _Carolina_, of a Pyrate Sloop's being there to carreen with her
Prizes.

Upon this Information, the Council of _South-Carolina_ was alarmed, and
apprehended they should receive another Visit from them speedily; to
prevent which, Colonel _William Rhet_, of the same Province, waited on the
Governor, and generously offered himself to go with two Sloops to attack
this Pyrate; which the Governor readily accepted, and accordingly gave the
Colonel a Commission and full Power, to fit such Vessels as he thought
proper for the Design.

In a few Days two Sloops were equipped and manned: The _Henry_ with 8 Guns
and 70 Men, commanded by Captain _John Masters_, and the _Sea Nymph_, with
8 Guns and 60 Men, commanded by Captain _Fayrer Hall_, both under the
entire Direction and Command of the aforesaid Colonel _Rhet_, who, on the
14th of _September_, went on Board the _Henry_, and, with the other Sloop,
sailed from _Charles-Town_ to _Swillivants_ Island, to put themselves in
order for the Cruize. Just then arrived a small Ship from _Antigoa_, one
_Cock_ Master, with an Account, that in Sight of the Bar he was taken and
plundered by one _Charles Vane_, a Pyrate, in a Brigantine of 12 Guns and
90 Men; and who had also taken two other Vessels bound in there, one a
small Sloop, Captain _Dill_ Master, from _Barbadoes_; the other a
Brigantine, Captain _Thompson_ Master, from _Guiney_, with ninety odd
Negroes, which they took out of the Vessel, and put on Board another Sloop
then under the Command of one _Yeats_, his Consort, with 25 Men. This
prov'd fortunate to the Owners of the _Guiney_ Man, for _Yeats_ having
often attempted to quit this Course of Life, took an Opportunity in the
Night, to leave _Vane_ and to run into _North-Edisto_ River, to the
Southward of _Charles-Town_, and surrendered to his Majesty's Pardon. The
Owners got their Negroes, and _Yeats_ and his Men had Certificates given
them from the Government.