_Edward Crisp_, Captain _Trengrove_, and Captain _Sharp_, who had all been
taken in their Turns, acknowledge for themselves and others, who had
unluckily fallen into those Pyrates Hands, that the good Usage they had met
with, was chiefly thro' the Prisoner's Means, who often interposed, for
leaving sufficient Stores and Instruments on Board the Ships they had
robbed, alledging, they were superfluous and unnecessary there.

_James White_, whose Business was Musick, and was on the Poop of the Pyrate
Ship in Time of Action with the _Swallow_, deposed, that during the
Engagement, and Defence she made, he never saw the Prisoner busied about
the Guns, or giving Orders, either to the loading or firing of them; but
that he wholly attended to the setting, or trimming, of the Sails, as
_Roberts_ commanded; and that in the Conclusion, he verily believed him to
be the Man who prevented the Ship's being blown up, by setting trusty
Centinels below, and opposing himself against such hot-headed Fellows as
had procured lighted Matches, and were going down for that Purpose.

_Isaac Sun_, Lieutenant of the Man of War, deposed, that when he came to
take Possession of the Prize, in the King's Boat, he found the Pyrates in a
very distracted and divided Condition; some being for blowing up, and
others (who perhaps supposed themselves least culpable) opposing it: That
in this Confusion he enquired for the Prisoner, of whom he had before heard
a good Character; and thinks he rendered all the Service in his Power, for
preventing it; in particular, he understood by all Hands, that he had
seized, and taken, from one _James Philips_, a lighted Match, at the
Instant he was going down to the Magazine, swearing, that he should send
them all to H--l together. He had heard also, that after _Roberts_ was
killed, the Prisoner ordered the Colours to be struck; and had since shown,
how opposite his Practice and Principles had been, by discovering who were
the greatest Rogues among them.