This severe Punishment did not at all convince _Jones_ that he was in the
wrong, but rather animated him to some sort of a Revenge; but not being
able to do it upon _Roberts_'s Person, on Board the Ship, he and several of
his Comrades, correspond with _Anstis_, Captain of the Brigantine, and
conspire with him and some of the principal Pyrates on Board that Vessel,
to go off from the Company. What made _Anstis_ a Malecontent, was, the
Inferiority he stood in, with Respect to _Roberts_, who carried himself
with a haughty and magisterial Air, to him and his Crew, he regarding the
Brigantine only as a Tender, and, as such, left them no more than the
Refuse of their Plunder. In short, _Jones_ and his Consort go on Board of
Captain _Anstis_, on Pretence of a Visit, and there consulting with their
Brethren, they find a Majority for leaving of _Roberts_, and so came to a
Resolution to bid a soft Farewel, as they call it, that Night, and to throw
over-board whosoever should stick out; but they proved to be unanimous, and
effected their Design as above-mentioned.

I shall have no more to say of Captain _Anstis_, till the Story of
_Roberts_ is concluded, therefore I return to him, in the pursuit of his
Voyage to _Guiney._ The loss of the Brigantine was a sensible Shock to the
Crew, she being an excellent Sailor, and had 70 Hands aboard; however,
_Roberts_ who was the Occasion of it, put on a Face of Unconcern at this
his ill Conduct and Mismanagement, and resolved not to alter his Purposes
upon that Account.

_Roberts_ fell in to Windward nigh the _Senegal_, a River of great Trade
for Gum, on this Part of the Coast, monopolized by the _French_, who
constantly keep Cruisers, to hinder the interloping Trade: At this Time
they had two small Ships on that Service, one of 10 Guns and 65 Men, and
the other of 16 Guns and 75 Men; who having got a Sight of Mr. _Roberts_,
and supposing him to be one of these prohibited Traders, chased with all
the Sail they could make, to come up with him; but their Hopes which had
brought them very nigh, too late deceived them, for on the hoisting of
_Jolly Roger_, (the Name they give their black Flag,) their _French_ Hearts
failed, and they both surrendred without any, or at least very little
Resistance. With these Prizes they went into _Sierraleon_, and made one of
them their Consort, by the Name of the _Ranger_, and the other a
Store-Ship, to clean by.