The Rise of these Rovers, since the Peace of _Utrecht_, or at least, the
great Encrease of them, may justly be computed to the _Spanish_ Settlements
in the _West Indies_; the Governors of which, being often some hungry
Courtiers, sent thither to repair or make a Fortune, generally Countenance
all Proceedings that bring in Profit: They grant Commissions to great
Numbers of Vessels of War, on Pretence of preventing an interloping Trade,
with Orders to seize all Ships or Vessels whatsoever, within five Leagues
of their Coasts, which our _English_ Ships cannot well avoid coming, in
their Voyage to _Jamaica_. But if the _Spanish_ Captains chance to exceed
this Commission, and rob and plunder at Discretion, the Sufferers are
allowed to complain, and exhibit a Process in their Court, and after great
Expence of Suit, Delay of Time, and other Inconveniencies, obtain a Decree
in their Favour, but then when the Ship and Cargo comes to be claim'd, with
Costs of Suit, they find, to their Sorrow, that it has been previously
condemn'd, and the Plunder divided among the Crew; the Commander that made
the Capture, who alone is responsible, is found to be a poor raskally
Fellow, not worth a Groat, and, no doubt, is plac'd in that Station for the
like Purposes.

The frequent Losses sustain'd by our Merchants abroad, by these Pyrates,
was Provocation enough to attempt something by way of Reprisal; and a fair
Opportunity offering it self in the Year 1716, the Traders of the
_West-Indies_, took Care not to slip it over, but made the best Use of it
their Circumstances would permit.

It was about two Years before, that the _Spanish_ Galleons, or Plate Fleet,
had been cast away in the Gulf or _Florida_; and several Vessels from the
_Havana_, were at work, with diving Engines, to fish up the Silver that was
on board the Galleons.

The _Spaniards_ had recovered some Millions of Pieces of Eight, and had
carried it all to the _Havana_; but they had at present about 350000 Pieces
of Eight in Silver, then upon the Spot, and were daily taking up more. In
the mean time, two Ships, and three Sloops, fitted out from _Jamaica_,
_Barbadoes_, _&c._ under Captain _Henry Jennings_, sail'd to the Gulf, and
found the _Spaniards_ there upon the Wreck; the Money before spoken of, was
left on Shore, deposited in a Store-House, under the Government of two
Commissaries, and a Guard of about 60 Soldiers.

The Rovers came directly upon the Place, bringing their little Fleet to an
Anchor, and, in a Word, landing 300 Men, they attack'd the Guard, who
immediately ran away; and thus they seized the Treasure, which they carried
off, making the best of their Way to _Jamaica_.

In their Way they unhappily met with a _Spanish_ Ship, bound from _Porto
Bello_ to the _Havana_, with a great many rich Goods, _viz._ Bales of
Cochineal, Casks of Indico, and 60000 Pieces of Eight more, which their
Hands being in, they took, and having rifled the Vessel, let her go.

They went away to _Jamaica_ with their Booty, and were followed in View of
the Port, by the _Spaniards_, who having seen them thither, went back to
the Governor of the _Havana_, with the Account of it, who immediately sent
a Vessel to the Governor of _Jamaica_ to complain of this Robbery, and to
reclaim the Goods.