It happened that at this Time one of his Majesty's Ships was upon a Cruize,
on this Station, and got Intelligence of some of the mischievous Actions of
this Miscreant, by one of the Vessels that had been plundered by him, who
steering as directed, came in Sight of the Pyrates by break of Day, on the
10th of _June_, of all Days in the Year. The Rovers looking out for Prey,
soon saw, and gave Chace to the Man of War, which was called the
_Greyhound_, a Ship of 20 Guns, and 120 Men, rather inferiour in Force to
the two Pyrate Vessels: The _Greyhound_ finding them so eager, was in no
doubt what they should be, and therefore tack'd and stood from them, giving
the Pyrates an Opportunity to chace her for two Hours, till all Things were
in Readiness for an Engagement, and the Pyrates about Gun-shot off; then
the _Greyhound_ tack'd again, and stood towards the two Sloops, one of them
called the _Fancy_, commanded by _Low_ himself, and the other the _Ranger_,
commanded by _Harris_, both which hoisted their pyratical Colours, and
fired each a Gun. When the _Greyhound_ came within Musquet-shot, she halled
up her Main-sail, and clapp'd close upon a Wind, to keep the Pyrates from
running to Leeward, and then engaged: But when the Rogues found who they
had to deal with, they edg'd away under the Man of War's Stern, and the
_Greyhound_ standing after them, they made a running Fight for about two
Hours; but little Wind happening, the Sloops gained from her, by the help
of their Oars; upon which the _Greyhound_ left off firing, and turned all
Hands to her own Oars, and at three in the Afternoon came up with them. The
Pyrates haul'd upon a Wind to receive the Man of War, and the Fight was
immediately renewed, with a brisk Fire on both Sides, till the _Ranger_'s
Main-Yard was shot down, and the _Greyhound_ pressing close upon the
disabled Sloop, _Low_, in the other, thought fit to bear away and leave his
Consort a Sacrifice to his Enemy, who (seing the Cowardice and Treachery of
his Commadore and Leader, having ten or twelve Men killed and wounded, and
that there was no possibility of escaping,) called out for Quarters, and
surrendered themselves to Justice, which proved severe enough to them
a-while afterwards.

The Conduct of _Low_ was surprizing in this Adventure, because his reputed
Courage and Boldness, had, hitherto, so possess'd the Minds of all People,
that he became a Terror, even to his own Men; but his Behaviour throughout
this whole Action, shewed him to be a base cowardly Villain, for had
_Low_'s Sloop fought half so briskly as _Harris_'s had done, (as they were
under a solemn Oath to do,) the Man of War, in my Opinion, could never have
hurted them.

The _Greyhound_ carried in their Prize to _Rhode Island_, to the great Joy
of the whole Province, tho' it had been more compleat, if the great _LOW_
himself had grac'd the Triumph. The Prisoners were strongly secured in a
Goal, till a Court of Vice-Admiralty could be held for their Tryals, which
begun on the 10th of _July_, at _Newport_, and continued three Days. The
Court was made up of the following Gentlemen.