The Vice-Roy, who came on Board that Morning, in Expectation of the Ships
being _English_, was made a Prisoner, and obliged to ransome; but in
Consideration of his great Loss, (the Prize being Part his own,) they
agreed after some Demurrings, to accept of 2000 Dollars, and set him and
the other Prisoners ashore, with Promises to leave a Ship that they might
Transport themselves, because the Island was not thought in a Condition to
maintain so great a Number; and tho' they had learned from them, the
Account of an _Ostender_ being to Leeward of the Island, which they took on
that Information, (being formerly the _Greyhound_ Galley of _London_,) and
could conveniently have comply'd with so reasonable a Request; yet they
sent the _Ostender_ with some of their People to _Madagascar_, with News of
their Success, and to prepare Masts for the Prize; and followed themselves
soon after, without regard to the Sufferers, carrying 200 _Mozambique_
Negroes with them in the _Portuguese_ Ship.

_Madagascar_ is an Island larger than _Great-Britain_, most of it within
the Tropick of _Capricorn_, and lays East from the Eastern Side of
_Africa_: It abounds with Provisions of all Sorts, Oxen, Goats, Sheep,
Poultry, Fish, Citrons, Oranges, Tamarinds, Dates, Coco-Nuts, Bananas, Wax,
Honey, Rice; or in short, Cotton, Indigo, or any other Thing they will take
Pains to plant, and have Understanding to manage: They have likewise Ebony,
a hard Wood like Brasil, of which they make their Lances; and Gum of
several Sorts, Benzin, Dragon's Blood, Aloes, _&c_. What is most
incommodious, are the numerous Swarms of Locusts on the Land, and
Crocodiles or Alligators in their Rivers. Hither, in St. _Augustin_'s Bay,
the Ships sometimes touch for Water, when they take the inner Passage for
_India_, and do not design to stop at _Johanna_; and we may observe from
the sixth general Voyage set forth by the _East-India_ Company, in
Confirmation of what is hereafter said in Relation to Currents in general;
that this inner Passage or Channel, has its Northern and Southern Currents
strongest where the Channel is narrowest, and is less, and varies on
different Points of the Compass, as the Sea comes to spread again, in the
Passage cross the Line.

Since the Discovery of this Island by the _Portuguese, A. D._ 1506, the
_Europeans_, and particularly Pyrates, have increased a dark Mulatto Race
there, tho' still few in Comparison with the Natives, who are Negroes, with
curled short Hair, Active, and formerly represented malicious and
revengeful, now tractable and communicable, perhaps owing to the Favours
and Generosity in Cloathing and Liquors, they from Time to Time have
received from these Fellows, who live in all possible Friendship, and can,
any single Man of them, command a Guard of 2 or 300 at a Minute's warning:
This is farther the Native's Interest, to cultivate with them, because the
Island being divided into petty Governments and Commands, the Pyrates,
settled here, who are now a considerable Number, and have little Castles of
their own, can preponderate where-ever they think fit to side.

When _Taylor_ came with the _Portuguese_ Prize here, they found the
_Ostender_ had played their Men a Trick, for they took Advantage of their
Drink, rise upon them, and (as they heard afterwards) carried the Ship to
_Mozambique_, whence the Governor ordered her for _Goa_.