By these Means they not only became feared, but powerful; all the Prisoners
of War, they took to be their Slaves; they married the most beautiful of
the Negroe Women; not one or two, but as many as they liked; so that every
one of them had as great a Seraglio as the Grand Seignior at
_Constantinople_: Their Slaves they employed in planting Rice, in Fishing,
Hunting, _&c._ besides which, they had abundance of others, who lived, as
it were, under their Protection, and to be secure from the Disturbances or
Attacks of their powerful Neighbours; these seemed to pay them a willing
Homage. Now they began to divide from one another, each living with his own
Wives, Slaves and Dependants, like a separate Prince; and as Power and
Plenty naturally beget Contention, they sometimes quarrelled with one
another, and attacked each other at the Head of their several Armies; and
in these civil Wars, many of them were killed; but an Accident happened,
which obliged them to unite again for their common Safety.

It must be observed that these sudden great Men, had used their Power like
Tyrants, for they grew wanton in Cruelty, and nothing was more common, than
upon the slightest Displeasure, to cause one of their Dependants to be tied
to a Tree and shot thro' the Heart, let the Crime be what it would, whether
little or great, this was always the Punishment; wherefore the Negroes
conspired together, to rid themselves of these Destroyers, all in one
Night; and as they now lived separate, the Thing might easily have been
done, had not a Woman, who had been Wife or Concubine to one of them, run
near twenty Miles in three Hours, to discover the Matter to them:
Immediately upon the Alarm they ran together as fast as they could, so that
when the Negroes approached them, they found them all up in Arms; wherefore
they retired without making any Attempt.

This Escape made them very cautious from that Time, and it will be worth
while to describe the Policy of these brutish Fellows, and to shew what
Measures they took to secure themselves.

They found that the Fear of their Power could not secure them against a
Surprize, and the bravest Man may be kill'd when he is asleep, by one much
his inferior in Courage and Strength, therefore, as their first Security,
they did all they could to foment War betwixt the neighbouring Negroes,
remaining Neuter themselves, by which Means, those who were overcome
constantly lied to them for Protection, otherwise they must be either
killed or made Slaves. They strengthened their Party, and tied some to them
by interest; when there was no War, they contrived to spirit up private
Quarrels among them, and upon every little Dispute or Misunderstanding,
push on one Side or other to Revenge; instruct them how to attack or
surprize their Adversaries, and lend them loaded Pistols or Firelocks to
dispatch them with; the Consequence of which was, that the Murderer was
forced to fly to them for the safety of his Life, with his Wives, Children
and Kindred.

Such as these were fast Friends, as their Lives depended upon the safety of
his Protectors; for as we observed before, our Pyrates were grown so
terrible, that none of their Neighbours had Resolution enough to attack
them in an open War.