Upon considering this Proposal, it appeared so seasonable to them, that
they readily came into it, for they argued to themselves, that an Accident
might happen to one of the Sloops and the other escape, wherefore it was
for the common Good. The Thing was done as agreed to, the Treasure put on
Board of _Avery_, and the Chests seal'd; they kept Company that Day and the
next, the Weather being fair, in which Time _Avery_ tampered with his Men,
telling them they now had sufficient, to make them all easy, and what
should hinder them from going to some Country, where they were not known,
and living on Shore all the rest of their Days in Plenty; they understood
what he meant: And in short, they all agreed to bilk their new Allies, the
Sloop's Men, nor do I find that any of them felt any Qualms of Honour
rising in his Stomach, to hinder them from consenting to this Piece of
Treachery. In fine, they took Advantage of the Darkness that Night, steer'd
another Course, and, by Morning, lost Sight of them.

I leave the Reader to judge, what Swearing and Confusion there was among
the Sloop's Men, in the Morning, when they saw that _Avery_ had given them
the Slip; for they knew by the Fairness of the Weather, and the Course they
had agreed to steer, that it must have been done on purpose: But we leave
them at present to follow Mr. _Avery_.

_Avery_, and his Men, having consulted what to do with themselves, came to
a Resolution, to make the best of their Way towards _America_; and none of
them being known in those Parts, they intended to divide the Treasure, to
change their Names, to go ashore, some in one Place, some in other, to
purchase some Settlements, and live at Ease. The first Land they made, was
the Island of _Providence_, then newly settled; here they staid some Time,
and having considered that when they should go to _New-England_, the
Greatness of their Ship, would cause much Enquiry about them; and possibly
some People from _England_, who had heard the Story of a Ship's being run
away with from the _Groine_, might suspect them to be the People; they
therefore took a Resolution of disposing of their Ship at _Providence_:
Upon which, _Avery_ pretending that the Ship being fitted out upon the
privateering Account, and having had no Success, he had received Orders
from the Owners, to dispose of her to the best Advantage, he soon met with
a Purchaser, and immediately bought a sloop.

In this Sloop, he and his Companions embarq'd, they touch'd at several
Parts of _America_, where no Person suspected them; and some of them went
on Shore, and dispersed themselves about the Country, having received such
Dividends as _Avery_ would give them; for he concealed the greatest Part of
the Diamonds from them, which in the first Hurry of plundering the Ship,
they did not much regard, as not knowing their Value.

At length he came to _Boston_, in _New-England_, and seem'd to have a
Desire of settling in those Parts, and some of his Companions went on Shore
there also, but he changed his Resolution, and proposed to the few of his
Companions who were left, to sail for _Ireland_, which they consented to:
He found out that _New-England_ was not a proper Place for him, because a
great deal of his Wealth lay in Diamonds; and should he have produced them
there, he would have certainly been seiz'd on Suspicion of Pyracy.