When our Gentry saw that all was clear, they secured the Hatches, so went
to work; they did not slip the Anchor, but weigh'd it leisurely, and so put
to Sea without any Disorder or Confusion, tho' there were several Ships
then lying in the Bay, and among them a _Dutch_ Frigate of forty Guns, the
Captain of which was offered a great Reward to go out after her; but
_Mynheer_, who perhaps would not have been willing to have been served so
himself could not be prevail'd upon to give such Usage to another, and so
let Mr. _Avery_ pursue his Voyage, whither he had a Mind to.

The Captain, who by this Time, was awaked, either by the Motion of the
Ship, or the Noise of working the Tackles, rung the Bell; _Avery_ and two
others went into the Cabin; the Captain, half asleep, and in a kind of
Fright, ask'd, _What was the Matter?_ _Avery_ answered cooly, _Nothing_;
the Captain replied, _something's the Matter with the Ship, Does she drive?
What Weather is it?_ Thinking nothing less then that it had been a Storm,
and that the Ship was driven from her Anchors: _No, no_, answered _Avery_,
_we're at Sea, with a fair Wind and good Weather. At Sea! _says the
Captain, _How can that be? Come_, says _Avery, don't be in a Fright, but
put on your Cloaths, and I'll let you into a Secret: -- You muse know, that
I am Captain of this Ship now, and this is my Cabin, therefore you must
walk out; I am bound to _Madagascar_, with a Design of making my own
Fortune, and that of all the brave Fellows joined with me._

The Captain having a little recovered his Senses, began to apprehend the
meaning; however, his Fright was as great as before, which _Avery_
perceiving, bad him fear nothing, for, says he, if you have a Mind to make
one of us, we will receive you, and if you'll turn sober, and mind your
Business, perhaps in Time I may make you one of my Lieutenants, if not,
here's a Boat a-long-side, and you shall be set ashore.

The Captain was glad to hear this, and therefore accepted of his Offer, and
the whole Crew being called up, to know who was willing to go on Shore with
the Captain, and who to seek their Fortunes with the rest; there were not
above five or six who were willing to quit this Enterprize; wherefore they
were put into the Boat with the Captain that Minute, and made their Way to
the Shore as well as they could.

They proceeded on their Voyage to _Madagascar_, but I do not find they took
any Ships in their Way; when they arrived at the N. E. Part of that Island,
they found two Sloops at Anchor, who, upon seeing them, slip'd their Cables
and run themselves ashore, the Men all landing, and running into the Woods;
these were two Sloops which the Men had run away with from the
_West-Indies_, and seeing _Avery_, they supposed him to be some Frigate
sent to take them, and therefore not being of Force to engage him, they did
what they could to save themselves.