HIS Reign was but short, but his Beginning somewhat particular,
setting out in a small open Boat, with eight others, from _New-York._ This
was as resolute a Crew as ever went upon this Account: They took with them
a few Biscuits, and a dry'd Tongue or two, a little Cag of Water, half a
dozen old Muskets and Ammunition accordingly. Thus provided, they left
_New-York_ the latter End of _September_ 1718, but it cannot be supposed
that such a Man of War as this, could undertake any considerable Voyage, or
attempt any extraordinary Enterprize; so they stood down the Coast, till
they came to _Delaware_ River, which is about 150 Miles distant, and not
meeting with any Thing in their Way, they turn'd up the same River as high
as _Newcastle_, near which Place they fell upon a Shallop belonging to
_George Grant_, who was bringing Houshold Goods, Plate, _&c._ from
_Oppoquenimi_ to _Philadelphia_; they made Prize of the most valuable Part
of them, and let the Shallop go. This Fact could not come under the Article
of Pyracy, it not being committed _super altum Mare_, upon the High-Sea,
therefore was a simple Robbery only; but they did not stand for a Point of
Law in the Case, but easing the Shallop Man of his Lading, the bold
Adventurers went down the River again.

The Shallop came straight to _Philadelphia_, and brought the ill News
thither, which so alarm'd the Government, as if War had been declared
against them; Expresses were sent to _New-York_, and other Places, and
several Vessels fitted out against this powerful Rover, but to no manner of
Purpose; for after several Days Cruize, they all return'd, without so much
as hearing what became of the Robbers.

_Worley_ and his Crew, in going down the River, met with a Sloop of
_Philadelphia_, belonging to a Mulatto, whom they call'd _Black Robbin_;
they quitted their Boat for this Sloop, taking one of _Black Robin_'s Men
along with them, as they had also done from _George Grant_, besides two
Negroes, which encreased the Company one Third. A Day or two after, they
took another Sloop belonging to _Hull_, homeward bound, which was somewhat
fitter for their Purpose; they found aboard her, Provisions and
Necessaries, which they stood in need of, and enabled them to prosecute
their Design, in a manner more suitable to their Wishes.

Upon the Success of these Rovers, the Governor issued out a Proclamation,
for the apprehending and taking all Pyrates, who had refused or neglected
to surrender themselves, by the Time limited in his Majesty's Proclamation
of Pardon; and thereupon, ordered his Majesty's Ship _Phoenix_, of 20 Guns,
which lay at _Sandy Hook_, to Sea, to cruize upon this Pyrate, and secure
the Trade to that, and the adjoining Colonies.

In all probability, the taking this Sloop sav'd their Bacons, for this
Time, tho' they fell into the Trap presently afterwards; for they finding
themselves in tolerable good Condition, having a Vessel newly cleaned, with
Provisions, _&c._ they stood off to Sea, and so missed the _Phoenix_, who
expected them to be still on the Coast.

About six Weeks afterwards they returned, having taken both a Sloop and a
Brigantine, among the _Bahama_ Islands; the former they sunk, and the other
they let go: The Sloop belonged to _New-York_, and they thought the sinking
of her good Policy, to prevent her returning to tell Tales at Home.