_Low_ judged right in making sail from the Coast, for a longer stay had
proved fatal to him, for notwithstanding the disabled Condition he had
rendered the Sloop in, she made shift to get into _Block Island_, at 12
o'Clock that Night, and immediately dispatched a Whale-Boat to _Rhode
Island_, which got thither by seven the next Morning, with an Account of
the Pyrate, his Force, and what had happened to him: As soon as the
Governor had received this Information, he ordered a Drum to beat up for
Volunteers, and two of the best Sloops then in the Harbour, to be fitted
out: He gave Commissions to one Captain _John Headland_, and Captain _John
Brown_, jun. for ten Days; the former had eight Guns and two Swivels, and
the latter six Guns, well fitted with small Arms, and in both Sloops 140
stout Fellows; all this was performed with so much Expedition, that before
Sun-set, they were under Sail, turning out of the Harbour, at the same Time
the Pyrate was seen from _Block Island_, which gave great Hopes that the
Sloops would be Masters of her the next Day, which however did not happen,
for the Sloops returned into Harbour some Days afterwards, without so much
as seeing their Enemy.

After this Escape, Captain _Low_, went into Port, upon the Coast, for he
had not fresh Water enough to run to the Islands, where he staid a few
Days, getting Provisions and what Necessaries the Crew wanted, and then
sailed for Purchase, (as they call it) steering their Course towards
_Marblehead._

About the 12th of _July_, the Brigantine sailed into the Harbour of Port
_Rosemary_, and there found thirteen Ships and Vessels, but none of Force,
at Anchor, they spread their black Flag, and ran in among them; _Low_
telling them from the Brigantine, they should have no Quarters if they
resisted; in the mean Time they mann'd and arm'd their Boat, and took
Possession of every one of them, plundered them of what they thought fit,
and converted one to their own Use, _viz._ a Scooner of 80 Tuns, aboard of
which they put 10 Carriage Guns, and 50 Men, and _Low_ himself went
Captain, and nam'd her the _Fancy_, making one _Charles Harris_, (who was
at first forced into their Service out of the _Greyhound_ of _Boston_, by
_Lowther_, of which Ship _Harris_ was second Mate) Captain of the
Brigantine: Out of these Vessels they took several Hands, and encreased the
Company to 80 Men, who all signed the Articles, some willingly, and a few
perhaps by Force, and so sailed away from _Marblehead._

Some Time after this, they met with two Sloops bound for _Boston_, with
Provisions for the Garrison, and the Scooner coming up first, attacked
them, but there happening to be an Officer and some Soldiers on Board, who
gave them a warm Reception, _Low_ chose to stay till he should be joyned by
the Brigantine; in the mean while the Sloops made the best of their Way,
and the Pyrates gave them Chace two Days, and at last lost sight of them in
a Fog.