They took Possession of it, and continued there near seven Weeks, in which
Time they all cleaned their Ships. We should have observed, that a Galley
came into the Road while they were there, which _Davis_ insisted should be
yielded to _La Bouse_, according to his Word of Honour before given;
_Cocklyn_ did not oppose it, so _La Bouse_ went into her, with his Crew,
and cutting away her half Deck, mounted her with twenty four Guns.

Having called a Counsel of War, they agreed to sail down the Coast
together, and for the greater Grandeur, appointed a Commadore, which was
_Davis_; but they had not kept Company long, when drinking together on
Board of _Davis_, they had like to have fallen together by the Ears, the
strong Liquor stirring up a Spirit of Discord among them, and they
quarrelled, but _Davis_ put an End to it, by this short Speech:--_Heark ye,
you_ Cocklin _and_ La Bouse, _I find by strengthening you, I have put a Rod
into your Hands to whip my self, but I'm still able to deal with you both;
but since we met in Love, let us part in Love, for I find, that three of a
Trade can never agree_.--Upon which the other two went on Board their
respective Ships, and immediately parted, each steering a different Course.

_Davis_ held on his Way down the Coast, and making Cape _Appollonia_, he
met with two _Scotch_ and one _English_ Vessel, which he plundered, and
then let go. About five Days after he fell in with a _Dutch_ Interloper of
thirty Guns and ninety Men, (half being _English_,) off Cape _Three Points_
Bay; _Davis_ coming up along Side of her, the _Dutch_ Man gave the first
Fire, and pouring in a broad-Side upon _Davis_, killed nine of his Men,
_Davis_ returned it, and a very hot Engagement followed, which lasted from
one a Clock at Noon, till nine next Morning, when the _Dutch_ Man struck,
and yielded her self their Prize.

_Davis_ fitted up the _Dutch_ Ship for his own Use, and called her the
_Rover_, aboard of which he mounted thirty two Guns, and twenty seven
Swivels, and proceeded with her and the _King James_, to _Anamaboe_; he
entered the Bay betwixt the Hours of twelve and one at Noon, and found
there three Ships lying at Anchor, who were trading for Negroes, Gold and
Teeth: The Names of these Ships were the _Hink_ Pink, Captain _Hall_
Commander, the _Princess_, Captain _Plumb_, of which _Roberts_, who will
make a considerable Figure in the sequel of this History, was second Mate,
and the _Morrice_ Sloop, Captain _Fin_; he takes these Ships without any
Resistance, and having plundered them, he makes a Present of one of them,
_viz._ the _Morrice_ Sloop, to the _Dutch_ Men, on Board of which alone
were found a hundred and forty Negroes, besides dry Goods, and a
considerable Quantity of Gold-Dust.

It happened there were several Canoes along Side of this last, when _Davis_
came in, who saved themselves and got ashore; these gave Notice at the
Fort, that these Ships were Pyrates, upon which the Fort fired upon them,
but without any Execution, for their Mettle was not of Weight enough to
reach them; _Davis_ therefore, by Way of Defiance, hoisted his black Flag
and returned their Compliment.