_The Gentleman who has taken the Pains to make these Observations, is _Mr.
Atkins_, a Surgeon, an ingenious Man in his own Profession, and one who is
not ty'd down by any narrow Considerations from doing a Service to the
Publick, and has been pleased generously to communicate them for the good
of others. I don't doubt, but his Observations will be found curious and
very serviceable to such as Trade to those Parts, besides a Method of Trade
is here laid down with the _Portuguese_, which may prove of great Profit to
some of our Countrymen, if followed according to his Plan._

_It is hoped these Things will satisfy the Publick, that the Author of the
following Sheets considered nothing so much as making the Book
useful;--tho' he has been informed, that some Gentlemen have rais'd an
Objection against the Truth of its Contents, _viz._ that it seems
calculated to entertain and divert.--If the Facts are related with some
Agreeableness and Life, we hope it will not be imputed as a Fault; but as
to its Credit, we can assure them that the Sea-faring Men, that is all that
know the Nature of these Things, have not been able to make the least
Objection to its Credit:--And he will be bold to affirm, that there is not
a Fact or Circumstance in the whole Book, but he is able to prove by
credible Witnesses._

_There have been some other Pyrates, besides those whose History are here
related, such as are hereafter named, and their Adventures are as
extravagant and full of Mischief, as those who are the Subject of this
Book.--The Author has already begun to digest them into Method, and as
soon, as he receives some Materials to make them compleat, (which he
shortly expects from the _West-Indies_). If the Publick gives him
Encouragement he intends to venture upon a second Volume._

THE HISTORY OF THE PYRATES.

INTRODUCTION.

AS the Pyrates in the _West-Indies_ have been so formidable and
numerous, that they have interrupted the Trade of _Europe_ into those
Parts; and our _English_ Merchants, in particular, have suffered more by
their Depredations, than by the united Force of _France_ and _Spain_, in
the late War: We do not doubt but the World will be curious to know the
Original and Progress of these Desperadoes, who were the Terror of the
trading Part of the World.

But before we enter upon their particular History, it will not be amiss, by
way of Introduction, to shew, by some Examples drawn from History, the
great Mischief and Danger which threaten Kingdoms and Commonwealths, from
the Increase of these sort of Robbers; when either by the Troubles of
particular Times, or the Neglect of Governments, they are not crush'd
before they gather Strength.

It has been the Case heretofore, that when a single Pyrate has been
suffered to range the Seas, as not being worth the Notice of a Government,
he has by Degrees grown so powerful, as to put them to the Expence of a
great deal of Blood and Treasure, before he was suppress'd. We shall not
examine how it came to pass, that our Pyrates in the _West-Indies_ have
continually increased till of late; this is an Enquiry which belongs to the
Legislature, or Representatives of the People in Parliament, and to them we
shall leave it.

Our Business shall be briefly to shew, what from Beginnings, as
inconsiderable as these, other Nations have suffered.