Whether he was frightened by these Menaces, or had seen some Body else he
thought knew him, is not known; but he went immediately over to _Ireland_,
and from thence sollicited his Merchants very hard for a Supply, but to no
Purpose, for he was even reduced to beggary: In this Extremity he was
resolved to return and cast himself upon them, let the Consequence be what
it would. He put himself on Board a trading Vessel, and work'd his Passage
over to _Plymouth_, from whence he travelled on Foot to _Biddiford_, where
he had been but a few Days before he fell sick and died; not being worth as
much as would buy him a Coffin.

Thus have I given all that could be collected of any Certainty concerning
this Man; rejecting the idle Stories which were made of his fantastick
Greatness, by which it appears, that his Actions were more inconsiderable
than those of other Pyrates, since him, though he made more Noise in the
World.

Now we shall turn back and give our Readers some Account of what became of
the two Sloops.

We took Notice of the Rage and Confusion, which must have seized them, upon
their missing of _Avery_; however, they continued their Course, some of
them still flattering themselves that he had only out sailed them in the
Night, and that they should find him at the Place of Rendezvous: But when
they came there, and could hear no Tydings of him, there was an End of
Hope. It was Time to consider what they should do with themselves, their
Stock of Sea Provision was almost spent, and tho' there was Rice and Fish,
and Fowl to be had ashore, yet these would not keep for Sea, without being
properly cured with Salt, which they had no Conveniency of doing;
therefore, since they could not go a Cruizing any more, it was Time to
think of establishing themselves at Land; to which Purpose they took all
Things out of the Sloops, made Tents of the Sails, and encamped themselves,
having a large Quantity of Ammunition, and abundance of small Arms.

Here they met with several of their Countrymen, the Crew of a Privateer
Sloop which was commanded by Captain _Thomas Tew_; and since it will be but
a short Digression, we will give an Account how they came here.