Captain _Hume_, finding no Account could be had of these Pyrates, designed
to go back, the next Day, to _Barbadoes_; but, it happened, that Night,
that a Boat anchor'd there from _Santa Crux_, and informed him, that he saw
a Pyrate Ship of 22 or 24 Guns, with other Vessels, going in to the North
West Part of the Island aforesaid. The _Scarborough_ weigh'd immediately,
and the next Morning came in Sight of the Rovers, and their Prizes, and
stood to them, but the Pilot refused to venture in with the Ship; all the
while the Pyrates fir'd red hot Bullets from the Shore. At length, the Ship
came to an Anchor, along Side the Reef, near the Channel, and cannonaded
for several Hours, both the Vessels and Batteries: About four in the
Afternoon, the Sloop that guarded the Channel, was sunk by the Shot of the
Man of War; then she cannonaded the Pyrate Ship of 22 Guns, that lay behind
the Island. The next Night, _viz._ the 18th, it falling Calm, Captain
_Hume_ weigh'd, fearing he might fall on the Reef, and so stood off and on
for a Day or two, to block them up. On the 20th, in the Evening, they
observed the Man of War to stand off to Sea, and took the Opportunity to
warp out, in order to slip away from the Island; but at Twelve o'Clock they
run a-ground, and then seeing the _Scarborough_ about, standing in again,
as their Case was desperate, so they were put into the utmost Confusion;
they quitted their Ship, and set her on Fire, with 20 Negroes in her, who
were all burnt; 19 of the Pyrates made their Escape in a small Sloop, but
the Captain and the rest, with 20 Negroes, betook to the Woods, where 'twas
probable they might starve, for we never heard what became of 'em
afterwards: Captain _Hume_ released the Prisoners, with the Ship and Sloop
that remained, and then went after the two Pyrate Sloops first mentioned.

CHAP. III. OF Captain _TEACH_ alias BLACK-BEARD.

E_Dward Teach_ was a _Bristol_ Man born, but had sailed some Time out
of _Jamaica_ in Privateers, in the late _French_ War; yet tho' he had often
distinguished himself for his uncommon Boldness and personal Courage, he
was never raised to any Command, till he went a-pyrating, which I think was
at the latter End of the Year 1716, when Captain _Benjamin Hornigold_ put
him into a Sloop that he had made Prize of, and with whom he continued in
Consortship till a little while before _Hornigold_ surrendered.

In the Spring of the Year 1717, _Teach_ and _Hornigold_ sailed from
_Providence_, for the Main of _America_, and took in their Way a Billop
from the _Havana_, with 120 Barrels of Flower, as also a Sloop from
_Bermuda_, _Thurbar_ Master, from whom they took only some Gallons of Wine,
and then let him go; and a Ship from _Madera_ to _South-Carolina_, out of
which they got Plunder to a considerable Value.

After cleaning on the Coast of _Virginia_, they returned to the
_West-Indies_, and in the Latitude of 24, made Prize of a large _French
Guiney_ Man, bound to _Martinico_, which by _Hornigold_'s Consent, _Teach_
went aboard of as Captain, and took a Cruize in her; _Hornigold_ returned
with his Sloop to _Providence_, where, at the Arrival of Captain _Rogers_,
the Governor, he surrendered to Mercy, pursuant to the King's Proclamation.