Having taken all the Treasure on Board their own Ships, and plundered their
Prize of every Thing else they either wanted or liked, they let her go; she
not being able to continue her Voyage, returned back: As soon as the News
came to the _Mogul_, and he knew that they were _English_ who had robbed
them, he threatened loud, and talked of sending a mighty Army with Fire and
Sword, to extirpate the _English_ from all their Settlements on the
_Indian_ Coast. The _East-India_ Company in _England_, were very much
alarmed at it; however, by Degrees, they found Means to pacify him, by
promising to do their Endeavours to take the Robbers, and deliver them into
his Hands; however, the great Noise this Thing made in Europe, as well as
_India_, was the Occasion of all these romantick Stories which were formed
of _Avery_'s Greatness.

In the mean Time our successful Plunderers agreed to make the best of their
Way back to _Madagascar_, intending to make that Place their Magazine or
Repository for all their Treasure, and to build a small Fortification
there, and leave a few Hands always ashore to look after it, and defend it
from any Attempts of the Natives; but _Avery_ put an End to this Project,
and made it altogether unnecessary.

As they were Steering their Course, as has been said, he sends a Boat on
Board of each of the Sloops, desiring the Chief of them to come on Board of
him, in order to hold a Council; they did so, and he told them he had
something to propose to them for the common Good, which was to provide
against Accidents; he bad them consider the Treasure they were possess'd
of, would be sufficient for them all if they could secure it in some Place
on Shore; therefore all they had to fear, was some Misfortune in the
Voyage; he bad them consider the Consequences of being separated by bad
Weather, in which Case, the Sloops, if either of them should fall in with
any Ships of Force, must be either taken or sunk, and the Treasure on Board
her lost to the rest, besides the common Accidents of the Sea; as for his
Part he was so strong, he was able to make his Party good with any Ship
they were like to meet in those Seas; that if he met with any Ship of such
Strength, that he could not take her, he was safe from being taken, being
so well mann'd; besides his Ship was a quick Sailor, and could carry Sail,
when the Sloops could not, wherefore, he proposed to them, to put the
Treasure on Board his Ship, to seal up each Chest with 3 Seals, whereof
each was to keep one, and to appoint a Rendezvous, in Case of Separation.