They proceeded after this to the Port of _Cavena_, at the Island of _Cuba_,
and in their Way took two Sloops, which they plundered, and let go; and off
the Port fell in with a fine Galley, with 20 Guns, call'd the _John_ and
_Martha_, Captain _Wilson_, which they attacked under the pyratical
Black-Flag, and made themselves Masters of her. They put some of the Men
ashore, and others they detain'd, as they had done several Times, to
encrease their Company; but Captain _Martel_, charged Captain _Wilson_, to
advise his Owners, that their Ship would answer his Purpose exactly, by
taking one Deck down, and as for the Cargo, which consisted chiefly of
Logwood and Sugar, he would take Care it should be carry'd to a good
Market.

Having fitted up the aforesaid Ship, as they design'd, they mounted her
with 22 Guns, 100 Men, and left 25 Hands in the Sloop, and so proceeded to
Cruize off the _Leeward_ Islands, where they met with but too much Success.
After the taking of a Sloop and a Brigantine, they gave Chase to a stout
Ship, which they came up with, and, at Sight of the Pyrate's Flag, she
struck to the Robbers, being a Ship of 20 Guns, call'd the _Dolphin_, bound
for _Newfoundland_. Captain _Martel_ made the Men Prisoners, and carry'd
the Ship with him.

The middle of _December_ the Pyrates took another Galley in her Voyage home
from _Jamaica_, call'd the _Kent_, Captain _Lawton_, and shifted her
Provisions aboard their own Ship, and let her go, which obliged her to Sail
back to _Jamaica_ for a Supply for her Voyage. After this they met with a
small Ship and a Sloop, belonging to _Barbadoes_, out of both they took
Provisions, and then parted with them, having first taken out some of their
Hands, who were willing to be forced to go along with them. The _Greyhound_
Galley of _London_, Captain _Evans_, from _Guiney_ to _Jamaica_, was the
next that had the Misfortune to fall in their Way, which they did not
detain long, for as soon as they could get out all her Gold Dust,
Elephant's Teeth, and 40 Slaves, they sent her onwards upon her Voyage.
. . . . .