The _Eagle_ Sloop brought all their Prisoners afterwards to St.
_Christopher_'s, where the following were try'd by a Court of Vice
Admiralty, there held _March_ the 11th, 1722, _viz. John Churchill, Edward
Mackdonald, Nicholas Lewis, Richard West, Sam. Levercott, Robert White,
John Shaw, Andrew Hunter, Jonathan Delve, Matthew Freebarn, Henry Watson,
Roger Grange, Ralph Candor_, and _Robert Willis_; the three last were
acquitted, the other thirteen were found Guilty, two of which were
recommended to Mercy by the Court, and accordingly pardoned; and the rest
executed at that Island, on the 20th of the same Month.

As for Captain _Lowther_, it is said that he afterwards shot himself upon
that fatal Island, where his Pyracies ended, being found, by some Sloop's
Men, dead, and a Pistol burst by his Side.

CHAP. XIII. OF Captain _Edward Low_, And his CREW.

E_dward Low_ was born in _Westminster_, and had his Education there,
such as it was, for he could neither write or read. Nature seem'd to have
designed him for a Pyrate from his Childhood, for very early he began the
Trade of plundering, and was wont to raise Contributions among all the Boys
of _Westminster_; and if any were bold enough to refuse it, a Battle was
the Consequence; but _Low_ was so hardy, as well as bold, there was no
getting the better of him, so that he robbed the Youths of their Farthings,
with Impunity; when he grew bigger he took to Gaming in a low Way, for it
was commonly among the Footmen in the _Lobby_ of the House of Commons,
where he used to play the whole Game, (as they term it,) that is, cheat all
he could, and those who pretended to dispute it with him, must fight him.

The Virtues of some of his Family were equal to his; one of his Brothers
was a Youth of Genius, when he was but seven Years old, he used to be
carried in a Basket, upon a Porter's Back, into a Crowd, and snatch Hats
and Wigs: According to the exact Chronology of _Newgate_, he was the first
who practised this ingenious Trick. After this, he applied himself to
picking of Pockets; when he increased in Strength, he attempted greater
Things, such as House-breaking, _&c._ But after he had run a short Race, he
had the Misfortune of ending his Days at _Tyburn_, in Company with _Stephen
Bunce_, and the celebrated _Jack Hall_ the Chimney-Sweeper.

But to return to _Ned_, when he came to Man's Estate, at his eldest
Brother's Desire, he went to Sea with him, and so continued for three or
four Years, and then parted; and _Ned_ work'd in a Rigging-House in
_Boston_ in _New-England_, for a while. About six Years ago, he took a Trip
home to _England_, to see his Mother, who is yet Living. His Stay was not
long here; but taking Leave of his Friends and Acquaintance, for the last
Time he should see them; for so he was pleased to say; he returned to
_Boston_, and work'd a Year or two longer at the Rigging Business. But
being too apt to disagree with his Masters, he left them, and shipp'd
himself in a Sloop that was bound to the Bay of _Honduras._