And that therefore being thus _labouring, and heavy laden with Sin_, Mat.
11. 28. you will esteem that as the most valuable _Knowledge_, that can
shew you how you can be reconciled to that Supreme God that you have so
highly offended; and that can reveal to you Him who is not only the
powerful _Advocate with the Father for you_, 1 John 2. 1. but also who hath
paid that Debt that is due for your Sins by his own Death upon the Cross
for you; and thereby made full Satisfaction for the Justice of God. And
this is to be found no where but in God's Word, which discovers to us that
_Lamb of God which takes away the Sins of the World_, John 1. 29. which is
_Christ_ the Son of God: For this know, and be assured, _that there is none
other Name under Heaven given among Men, whereby we must be saved_, Acts 4.
12. but only by the Name of the Lord _Jesus_.

But then consider how he invites all Sinners to come unto him, and, _that
he will give them rest_, Matt. 11. 28. for he assures us, _that he came to
seek and to save that which was lost_, Luke 19. 10, Mat. 18. 11. and hath
promised, _that he that cometh unto him, he will in no wise cast out_, John
6. 37.

So that if now you will sincerely turn to him, tho' late, even at the
_eleventh Hour_, Mat. 20. 6, 9. he will receive you.

But surely I need not tell you, that the _Terms_ of his _Mercy_ is _Faith_
and _Repentance_.

And do not mistake the _Nature_ of Repentance to be only a bare Sorrow for
your Sins, arising from the Consideration of the _Evil_ and _Punishment_
they have now brought upon you; but your Sorrow must arise from the
Consideration of your having offended a gracious and merciful God.

But I shall not pretend to give you any particular Directions as to the
Nature of Repentance: I consider that I speak to a Person, whose Offences
have proceeded not so much from his not _knowing_, as his _slighting_ and
_neglecting_ his _Duty_: Neither is it proper for me to give Advice out of
the Way of my own Profession.

You may have that better delivered to you by those who have made Divinity
their particular Study; and who, by their Knowledge, as well as their
Office, as being the _Ambassadors of Christ_, 2 Cor. 5. 20. are best
qualified to give you Instructions therein.

I only heartily wish, that what, in Compassion to your Soul, I have now
said to you upon this sad and solemn Occasion, by exhorting you in general
to _Faith_ and _Repentance_, may have that due Effect upon you, that
thereby you may become a true _Penitent_.

And therefore having now discharged my Duty to you as a _Christian_, by
giving you the best Counsel I can, with respect to the Salvation of your
Soul, I must now do my Office as a _Judge_.

The _Sentence_ that the Law hath appointed to pass upon you for your
Offences, and which this Court doth therefore award, is,

* * *

_That you, the said_ Stede Bonnet, _shall go from hence to the Place from
whence you came, and from thence to the Place of Execution, where you shall
be hanged by the Neck till you are dead_.

_And the God of infinite Mercy be merciful to your Soul_.

CHAP. V. OF Capt. _Edward England_, And his CREW.