The Palm-Trees are numerous on the Shores of _Africa_, and may be reckoned
the first of their natural Curiosities, in that they afford them Meat,
Drink and Cloathing; they grow very straight to 40 and 50 Foot high, and at
the top (only) have 3 or 4 Circles of Branches, that spread and make a
capacious Umbrella. The Trunk is very rough with Knobs, either
Excrescencies, or the Healings of those Branches that were lopped off to
forward the Growth of the Tree, and make it answer better in its Fruit. The
Branches are strongly tied together with a _Cortex_, which may be
unravelled to a considerable Length and Breadth; the inward _Lamella_ of
this _Cortex_, I know are wove like a Cloath at _Benin_, and afterwards
died and worn: Under the Branches, and close to the Body of the Tree, hang
the Nuts, thirty Bunches perhaps on a Tree, and each of thirty Pound
Weight, with prickly Films from between them, not unresembling Hedge-Hogs;
of these Nuts comes a liquid and pleasant scented Oyl, used as Food and
Sauce all over the Coast, but chiefly in the Windward Parts of _Africa_,
where they stamp, boil and skim it off in great Quantities; underneath,
where the Branches fasten, they tap for Wine, called _Cockra_, in this
Manner; the Negroes who are mostly limber active Fellows, encompass
themselves and the Trees with a Hoop of strong With, and run up with a
great deal of Agility; at the Bottom of a Branch of Nuts, he makes an
Excavation of an Inch and a half over, and tying fast his Calabash, leaves
it to destil, which it does to two or three Quarts in a Night's Time, when
done he plugs it up, and chooses another; for if suffered to run too much,
or in the Day Time, the Sap is unwarily exhausted, and the Tree spoiled:
The Liquor thus drawn, is of a wheyish Colour, intoxicating and sours in 24
Hours, but when new drawn, is _pleasantest to thirst and hunger both_: It
is from these Wines they draw their Arack in _India_. On the very Top of
the Palm, grows a Cabbage, called so, I believe, from some resemblance its
Tast is thought to have with ours, and is used like it; the Covering has a
Down that makes the best of Tinder, and the Weavings of other Parts are
drawn out into strong Threads.

_Coco-Nut-Trees_ are branch'd like, but not so tall as, _Palm_ Trees, the
Nut like them, growing under the Branches, and close to the Trunk; the
milky Liquor they contain, (to half a Pint or more,) is often drank to
quench Thirst, but surfeiting, and this may be observed in their Way of
Nourishment, that when the Quantity of Milk is large, the Shell and Meat
are very thin, and harden and thicken in Proportion, as that loses.

_Cotton_ Trees also are the Growth of all Parts of _Africk_, as well as the
Islands, of vast Bigness, yet not so incremental as the Shrubs or Bushes of
five or six Foot high; these bear a Fruit (if it may be so called) about
the Bigness of Pigeons Eggs, which as the Sun swells and ripens, bursts
forth and discovers three Cells loaded with Cotton, and Seeds in the Middle
of them: This in most Parts the Negroes know how to spin, and here at
_Nicongo_ and the Island St. _Jago_, how to weave into Cloths.