He urged also his Youth in Excuse for his Rashness.--The first time he had
been with them (only a Month in all,) and that in no military Employ; but
in particular, the Service he had done in discovering the Design the
Pyrates had to rise in their Passage on Board the _Swallow. Guilty._

* * *

But Execution respited till the King's Pleasure be known, because the
Commander of the _Swallow_ had declared, the first Notice he received of
this Design of the Pyrates to rise, was from him.

_Benjamin Jefferys_

BY the Depositions of _Glasby_ and _Lillburn_ (acquitted) against
this Prisoner, it appeared, that his Drunkenness was what at first detained
him from going away in his proper Ship, the _Norman_ Galley; and next
Morning, for having been abusive in his Drink, saying to the Pyrates, there
was not a Man amongst them, he received for a Welcome, six Lashes from
every Person in the Ship, which disordered him for some Weeks, but on
Recovery was made Boatswain's Mate; the serving of which, or any Office on
Board a Pyrate, is at their own Option, (tho' elected,) because others are
glad to accept what brings an additional Share in Prize.

The Deponents further say, that at _Sierraleon_ every Man had more
especially the Means of escaping; and that this Prisoner, in particular,
neglected it, and came off from that Place after their Ship was under Sail,
and going out of the River.

The Prisoner, in his Defence, protests, he was at first forc'd; and that
the Office of Boatswain's Mate was imposed on him, and what he would have
been glad to have relinquish'd. That the barbarous Whipping he had received
from the Pyrates at first, was for telling them, that none who could get
their Bread in an honest Way, would be on such an Account. And he had
certainly taken the Opportunity which presented at _Sierraleon_, of ridding
himself from so distastful a Life, if there had not been three or four of
the old Pyrates on Shore at the same Time, who, he imagined, must know of
him, and would doubtless have served him the same, if not worse, than they
since had done _William Williams_; who, for such a Design, being delivered
up by the treacherous Natives, had received two Lashes thro' the whole
Ship's Company.

The Court observed, the Excuses of these Pyrates, about want of Means to
escape, was oftentimes as poor and evasive as their Pleas of being forced
at first; for here, at _Sierraleon_, every Man had his Liberty on Shore,
and it was evident, might have kept it, if he, or they, had so pleased. And
such are further culpable, who having been introduced into the Society, by
such uncivil Methods, as whipping, or beating, neglect less likely Means of
regaining Liberty; it shews strong Inclinations to Dishonesty, and they
stand inexcusably, _Guilty._

_Jo. Mansfield._

IT was proved against this Prisoner, by Captain _Trahern_ and _George
Fenn_, that he was one of those Voluntiers who was at the Attack and
Robbery of the Company's Ship, called the _King Solomon_: That he bully'd
well among them who dar'd not make any Reply, but was very easy with his
Friends, who knew him; for _Moody_, on this Occasion, took a large Glass
from him, and threatned to blow his Brains out, (a favourite Phrase with
these Pyrates) if he muttered at it.