As Women seldom forgive Injuries of this Kind, she thought of discharging
her Revenge upon the Maid: In order to this, she leaves the Spoons where
she found them, and orders the Maid to put clean Sheets upon the Bed,
telling her, she intended to lye there herself that Night, because her
Mother in Law was to lye in her Bed, and that she (the Maid) must lye in
another Part of the House; the Maid in making the Bed, was surprized with
the Sight of the Spoons, but there were very good Reasons, why it was not
proper for her to tell where she found them, therefore she takes them up,
puts them in her Trunk, intending to leave them in some Place, where they
might be found by chance.

The Mistress, that every Thing might look to be done without Design, lies
that Night in the Maid's Bed, little dreaming of what an Adventure it would
produce: After she had been a Bed some Time, thinking on what had pass'd,
for Jealousy kept her awake, she heard some Body enter the Room; at first
she apprehended it to be Thieves, and was so fright'ned, she had not
Courage enough to call out; but when she heard these Words, Mary, _are you
awake_? She knew it to be her Husband's Voice; then her Fright was over,
yet she made no Answer, least he should find her out, if she spoke,
therefore she resolved to counterfeit Sleep, and take what followed.

The Husband came to Bed, and that Night play'd the vigorous Lover; but one
Thing spoil'd the Diversion on the Wife's Side, which was, the Reflection
that it was not design'd for her; however she was very passive, and bore it
like a Christian. Early before Day, she stole out of Bed, leaving him
asleep, and went to her Mother in Law, telling her what had passed, not
forgetting how he had used her, as taking her for the Maid; the Husband
also stole out, not thinking it convenient to be catch'd in that Room; in
the mean Time, the Revenge of the Mistress was strongly against the Maid,
and without considering, that to her she ow'd the Diversion of the Night
before, and that one good _Turn_ should deserve another; she sent for a
Constable, and charged her with stealing the Spoons: The Maid's Trunk was
broke open, and the Spoons found, upon which she was carried before a
Justice of Peace, and by him committed to Goal.

The Husband loiter'd about till twelve a Clock at Noon, then comes Home,
pretended he was just come to Town; as soon as he heard what had passed, in
Relation to the Maid, he fell into a great Passion with his Wife; this set
the Thing into a greater Flame, the Mother takes the Wife's Part against
her own Son, insomuch that the Quarrel increasing, the Mother and Wife took
Horse immediately, and went back to the Mother's House, and the Husband and
Wife never bedded together after.

The Maid lay a long Time in the Prison, it being near half a Year to the
Assizes; but before it happened, it was discovered she was with Child; when
she was arraign'd at the Bar, she was discharged for want of Evidence; the
Wife's Conscience touch'd her, and as she did not believe the Maid Guilty
of any Theft, except that of Love, she did not appear against her; soon
after her Acquittal, she was delivered of a Girl.