From others acquitted, it likewise appeared, that he was at first a
Voluntier among them, from an Island call'd _Dominico_, in the
_West-Indies_, and had to recommend himself, told them, he was a Deserter
from the _Rose_ Man of War, and before that, had been on the High-Way; he
was always drunk, they said, and so bad at the Time they met with the
_Swallow_, that he knew nothing of the Action, but came up vapouring with
his Cutlash, after the _Fortune_ had struck her Colours, to know who would
go on Board the Prize; and it was some Time before they could perswade him
into the Truth of their Condition.

He could say little in Defence of himself, acknowledg'd this latter Part of
Drunkenness; a Vice, he says, that had too great a Share in insnaring him
into this Course of Life, and had been a greater Motive with him than Gold.
_Guilty._

_William Davis._

W_Illiam Allen_ deposed, he knew this Prisoner at _Sierraleon_,
belonging to the _Ann_ Galley; that he had a Quarrel with, and beat the
Mate of that Ship, for which (as he said) being afraid to return to his
Duty, he consorted to the idle Customs and Ways of living among the
Negroes, from whom he received a Wife, and ungratefully sold her, one
Evening, for some Punch to quench his Thirst. After this, having put
himself under the Protection of Mr. _Plunket_, Governor there for the Royal
_African_ Company: The Relations and Friends of the Woman, apply'd to him
for Redress, who immediately surrendered the Prisoner, and told them, he
did not care if they took his Head off; but the Negroes wisely judging it
would not fetch so good a Price, they sold him in his Turn again to
Seignior _Jossee_, a Christian Black, and Native of that Place; who
expected and agreed for two Years Service from him, on Consideration of
what he had disbursed, for the Redemption of the Woman: But long before the
Expiration of this Time, _Roberts_ came into _Sierraleon_ River, where the
Prisoner, (as Seignior _Jossee_ assured the Deponent,) entered a Voluntier
with them.

The Deponent further corroborates this Part of the Evidence; in that he
being obliged to call at Cape _Mount_, in his Passage down hither, met
there with two Deserters from _Roberts_'s Ship, who assured him of the
same; and that the Pyrates did design to turn _Davis_ away the next
Opportunity, as an idle good-for-nothing Fellow.

From _Glasby_ and _Lilburn_, it was evident, that every Pyrate, while they
stay'd at _Sierraleon_, went on Shore at Discretion. That _Roberts_ had
often assured Mr. _Glyn_ and other Traders, at that Place, that he would
force no Body; and in short, there was no Occasion for it; in particular,
the Prisoner's Row-Mate went away, and thinks, he might have done the same,
if he had pleased.

The Prisoner alledged his having been detained against his Will, and says,
that returning with Elephants Teeth for _Sierraleon_, the Pyrate's Boat
pursued and brought him on Board, where he was kept on Account of his
understanding the Pilotage and Navigation of that River.

It was obvious to the Court, not only how frivolous Excuses of Constraint
and Force were among these People, at their first commencing Pyrates, but
also it was plain to them, from these two Deserters, met at Cape _Mount_,
and the discretional Manner they lived in, at _Sierraleon_; thro' how
little Difficulty several of them did, and others might, have escaped
afterwards, if they could but have obtained their own Consents for it.
_Guilty._

* * *