Here they sate down to spend the Fruits of their dishonest Industry,
dividing the Spoil and Plunder of Nations among themselves, without the
least Remorse or Compunction, satisfying their Conscience with this Salvo,
that other People would have done as much, had they the like Opportunities.
I can't say, but that if they had known what was doing in _England_, at the
same Time by the _South-Sea_ Directors, and their Directors, they would
certainly have had this Reflection for their Consolation, _viz. That what
ever Robberies they had committed, they might be pretty sure they were not
the greatest Villains then living in the World_.

It is a difficult Matter to make a Computation of the Mischief that was
done by this Crew, in about five Years Time, which is much more than the
Plunder they gained, for they often sunk or burnt the Vessel they took, as
it suited their Humour or Circumstances, sometimes to prevent giving
Intelligence, sometimes because they did not leave Men to navigate them,
and at other Times out of Wantonness, or because they were displeased at
the Master's Behaviour; for any of these, it was but to give the Word, and
down went Ships and Cargoes to the Bottom of the Sea.

Since their Surrender to the _Spaniards_, I am informed several of them
have left the Place, and dispersed themselves elsewhere; eight of them were
shipp'd about _November_ last, in one of the _South-Sea_ Company's Assiento
Sloops, and passed for Ship-wreck'd Men, came to _Jamaica_, and there
sailed in other Vessels; and I know one of them that came to _England_ this
Spring from that Island. 'Tis said that Captain _Taylor_ has taken a
Commission in the _Spanish_ Service, and commanded the Man of War that
lately attack'd the _English_ Log-Wood Cutters, in the Bay of _Honduras_.

CHAP. VI. OF Captain _Charles Vane_, And his CREW.

C_Harles Vane_ was one of those who stole away the Silver which the
_Spaniards_ had fished up from the Wrecks of the Galleons, in the Gulph of
_Florida_, and was at _Providence_ (as has been before hinted) when
Governor _Rogers_ arrived there with two Men of War.

All the Pyrates who were found at this Colony of Rogues, submitted, and
received Certificates of their Pardon, except Captain _Vane_ and his Crew;
who, as soon as they saw the Men of War enter, slipp'd their Cable, set
Fire to a Prize they had in the Harbour, and sailed out with their
pyratical Colours flying, firing at one of the Men of War as they went off.

Two Days after they went out, they met with a Sloop belonging to
_Barbadoes_, which they made Prize of, and kept the Vessel for their own
Use, putting aboard five and twenty Hands, with one _Yeats_ to command
them. A Day or two afterwards they fell in with a small interloping Trader,
with a Quantity of _Spanish_ Pieces of Eight aboard, bound into
_Providence_, called the _John_ and _Elizabeth_, which they also took along
with them. With these two Sloops _Vane_ went to a small Island and cleaned;
where they shared their Booty, and spent some Time in a riotous Manner of
Living, as is the Custom of Pyrates.