H_Arry Glasby, Jo. Wingfield_, and _Nicholas Brattle_, depose thus
much, as to his being a Voluntier with the Pyrates, from Capt. _Rolls_, at
_Calabar._ First, That he quarrelled with _Moody_, (one of the Heads of the
Gang) and fought with him, because he opposed his going, asking _Rolls_, in
a leering manner, whether he would not be so kind, as to put him into the
_Gazette_, when he came Home. And, at another Time, when he was going from
the Pyrate Ship, in his Boat, a Turnado arose, _I wish_, says he, _the
Rascal may be drowned, for he is a great Rogue, and has endeavoured to do
me all the ill Offices he could among these Gentlemen_, (_i. e._Pyrates.)

And secondly, That he had signed the Pyrate's Articles with a great deal of
Alacrity, and gloried in having been the first Surgeon that had done so,
(for before this, it was their Custom to change their Surgeons, when they
desired it, after having served a Time, and never obliged them to sign, but
he was resolved to break thro' this, for the good of those who were to
follow,) swearing immediately upon it, he was now, he hoped, as great a
Rogue as any of them.

Captain _Jo. Trahern_, and _George Fenn_, his Mate, deposed, the Prisoner
to have taken out of the _King Solomon_, their Surgeon's capital
Instruments, some Medicines, and a Back-Gammon Table; which latter became
the Means of a Quarrel between one _Wincon_, and he, whose Property they
should be, and were yielded to the Prisoner.

_Jo. Sharp_, Master of the _Elizabeth_, heard the Prisoner ask _Roberts_
leave to force _Comry_, his Surgeon, from him, which was accordingly done,
and with him, carried also some of the Ship's Medicines: But what gave a
fuller Proof of the dishonesty of his Principles, was, the treacherous
Design he had formed of running away with the Prize, in her Passage to Cape
_Corso_, though he had been treated with all Humanity, and very unlike a
Prisoner, on Account of his Employ and better Education, which had rendred
him less to be suspected.

_Mr. Child_, (acquitted) depos'd, that in their Passage from the Island of
St. _Thomas_, in the _Fortune_ Prize, this Prisoner was several Times
tempting him, into Measures of rising with the Negroes, and killing the
_Swallow_'s People, shewing him, how easily the white Men might be
demolished, and a new Company raised at _Angola_, and that Part of the
Coast, _for_, says he, _I understand how to navigate a Ship, and can soon
teach you to steer; and is it not better to do this, than to go back to_
Cape-Corso, _and be hanged and Sun-dryed?_ To which the Deponent replying,
he was not afraid of being hanged, _Scudamore_ bid him be still, and no
Harm should come to him; but before the next Day-Evening, which was the
designed Time of executing this Project, the Deponent discovered it to the
Officer, and assured him, _Scudamore_ had been talking all the preceeding
Night to the Negroes, in _Angolan_ Language.