The poor Man trembled every Joint, when he found into what Company he had
fallen, and dreaded the Event, as he had Reason enough so to do; for the
Boatswain immediately called to his Consorts, laid hold of the Captain, and
made him fast to the Windless, and there pelted him with Glass Bottles,
which cut him in a sad Manner; after which they whipp'd him about the Deck,
till they were weary, being deaf to all his Prayers and Intreaties, and at
last, because he had been a good Master to his Men, they said, he should
have an easy Death, and so shot him thro' the Head. They took some few
Things out of the Snow, but gave the Vessel and all her Cargo to _Howel
Davis_ the Mate; and the rest of the Crew, as will be hereafter mentioned
in the Chapter of Captain _Davis_.

Captain _England_ took a Ship called the _Pearl_, Captain _Tyzard_
Commander, for which he exchanged his own Sloop, fitted her up for the
pyratical Account, and new christen'd her, the _Royal James_, with which he
took several Ships and Vessels of different Nations at the _Azores_ and
_Cape de Verd Islands_.

In the Spring, 1719, the Rovers returned to _Africa_, and beginning at the
River _Gambia_, sailed all down the Coast; and between that and _Cape
Corso_, took the following Ships and Vessels.

The _Eagle_ Pink, Captain _Rickets_ Commander belonging to _Cork_, taken
the 25th of _March_, having 6 Guns and 17 Men on Board, seven of which
turned Pyrates.

The _Charlotte_, Captain _Oldson_, of _London_, taken _May_ the 26th,
having 8 Guns and 18 Men on Board, 13 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Sarah_, Captain _Stunt_, of _London_, taken the 27th of _May_, having
4 Guns and 18 Men on Board, 3 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Bentworth_, Captain _Gardener_, of _Bristol_, taken the 27th of _May_,
having 12 Guns and 30 Men on Board, 12 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Buck_ Sloop, Captain _Sylvester_, of _Gambia_, taken the 27th of
_May_, having 2 Guns and 2 Men on Board, and both turned Pyrates.

The _Carteret_, Captain _Snow_, of _London_, taken the 28th of _May_,
having 4 Guns and 18 Men on Board, 5 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Mercury_, Captain _Maggott_, of _London_, taken the 29th of _May_,
having 4 Guns and 18 Men on Board, 5 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Coward_ Galley, Captain _Creed_, of _London_, taken the 17th of
_June_, having 2 Guns and 13 Men on Board, 4 of which turned Pyrates.

The _Elizabeth_ and _Katherine_, Captain _Bridge_ of _Barbadoes_, taken
_June_ the 27th, having 6 Guns and 14 Men on Board, 4 of which turned
Pyrates.