_Kennedy_ having spent all his Money, came over from _Ireland_, and kept a
common B--y-House on _Deptford_ Road, and now and then, 'twas thought, made
an Excursion abroad in the Way of his former Profession, till one of his
Houshold W--s gave Information against him for a Robbery, for which he was
committed to _Bridewell_; but because she would not do the Business by
halves, she found out a Mate of a Ship that _Kennedy_ had committed Pyracy
upon, as he foolishly confess'd to her. This Mate, whose Name was _Grant_,
paid _Kennedy_ a Visit in _Bridewell_, and knowing him to be the Man,
procured a Warrant, and had him committed to the _Marshalsea_ Prison.

The Game that _Kennedy_ had now to play was to turn Evidence himself;
accordingly he gave a List of eight or ten of his Comrades; but not being
acquainted with their Habitations, one only was taken, who, tho' condemn'd,
appeared to be a Man of a fair Character, was forc'd into their Service,
and took the first Opportunity to get from them, and therefore receiv'd a
Pardon; but _Walter Kennedy_ being a notorious Offender, was executed the
19th of _July_, 1721, at _Execution Dock_.

The rest of the Pyrates who were left in the Ship _Rover_, staid not long
behind, for they went ashore to one of the _West-India_ Islands; what
became of them afterwards, I can't tell, but the Ship was found at Sea by a
Sloop belonging to St. _Christophers_, and carried into that Island with
only nine Negroes aboard.

Thus we see what a disastrous Fate ever attends the Wicked, and how rarely
they escape the Punishment due to their Crimes, who, abandon'd to such a
profligate Life, rob, spoil, and prey upon Mankind, contrary to the Light
and Law of Nature, as well as the Law of God. It might have been hoped,
that the Examples of these Deaths, would have been as Marks to the
Remainder of this Gang, how to shun the Rocks their Companions had split
on; that they would have surrendered to Mercy, or divided themselves, for
ever from such Pursuits, as in the End they might be sure would subject
them to the same Law and Punishment, which they must be conscious they now
equally deserved; _impending Law_, which never let them sleep well, unless
when drunk. But all the Use that was made of it here, was to commend the
Justice of the Court, that condemn'd _Kennedy, for he was a sad Dog_ (they
said) _and deserved the Fate he met with_.

But to go back to _Roberts_, whom we left on the Coast of _Caiana_, in a
grievous Passion at what _Kennedy_ and the Crew had done; and who was now
projecting new Adventures with his small Company in the Sloop; but finding
hitherto they had been but as a Rope of Sand, they formed a Set of
Articles, to be signed and sworn to, for the better Conservation of their
Society, and doing Justice to one another; excluding all _Irish_ Men from
the Benefit of it, to whom they had an implacable Aversion upon the Account
of _Kennedy_. How indeed _Roberts_ could think that an Oath would be
obligatory, where Defiance had been given to the Laws of God and Man, I
can't tell, but he thought their greatest Security lay in this, _That it
was every one's Interest to observe them if they were minded to keep up so
abominable a Combination_.

The following, is the Substance of the Articles, as taken from the
Pyrates own Informations.

I.