Having come within Sight of the Place, he ordered all his Men under Deck,
except as many as were absolutely necessary for working the Ship, that
those from the Fort seeing a Ship with so few Hands, might have no
Suspicion of her being any other than a trading Vessel; then he ran close
under the Fort, and there cast Anchor; and having ordered out the Boat, he
commanded six Men in her, in old ordinary Jackets, while he himself, with
the Master and Doctor, dressed themselves like Gentlemen; his Design being,
that the Men should look like common Sailors, and they like Merchants. In
rowing ashore he gave his Men Instructions what to say in Case any
Questions should be asked them.

Being come to the landing Place, he was received by a File of Musqueteers,
and conducted into the Fort, where the Governor accosting them civilly,
ask'd them who they were, and whence they came? They answered they were of
_Liverpool_, bound for the River of _Sinnegal_, to trade for Gum and
Elephants Teeth, but that they were chaced on that Coast by two _French_
Men of War, and narrowly escaped being taken, having a little the Heels of
them; but now they were resolved to make the best of a bad Market, and
would Trade here for Slaves; then the Governor ask'd them, what was the
chief of their Cargo? They answered, Iron and Plate, which were good Things
there; the Governor told them he would Slave them to the full Value of
their Cargoe, and asked them, if they had any _European_ Liquor on Board?
they answered, a little for their own Use; however, a Hamper should be at
his Service. The Governor then very civilly invited them all to stay and
dine with him; _Davis_ told him, that being Commander of the Ship, he must
go on Board to see her well moored, and give some other Orders, but those
two Gentlemen might stay, and that he himself would also return before
Dinner, and bring the Hamper of Liquor with him.

While he was in the Fort, his Eyes were very busy in observing how Things
lay; he took Notice there was a Centry at the Entrance, and a Guard-House
just by it, where the Soldiers upon Duty commonly waited, their Arms
standing in a Corner, in a Heap; he saw also a great many small Arms in the
Governor's Hall; now when he came on Board, he assured his Men of Success,
desiring them not to get drunk, and that as soon as they saw the Flag upon
the Castle struck, they might conclude he was Master, and send twenty Hands
immediately ashore; in the mean Time, there being a Sloop at Anchor near
them, he sent some Hands in a Boat, to secure the Master and all the Men,
and bring them on Board of him, least they observing any Bustle or arming
in his Ship, might send ashore and give Intelligence.

These Precautions being taken, he ordered his Men, who were to go in the
Boat with him, to put two Pair of Pistols each under their Cloaths, he
doing the like himself, and gave them Directions to go into the Guard-Room,
and to enter into Conversation with the Soldiers, and observe when he
should fire a Pistol thro' the Governor's Window, to start up at once and
secure the Arms in the Guard-Room.