After this, they were obliged to put into several Ports, and by contrary
Winds, came to the Coast of _France_, and hearing there was an Enquiry made
after the Ship, _Roche_ quits her at _Havre de Grace_, and leaves the
Management to _Cullen_ and the rest; who having shipp'd other Men, sail'd
away to _Scotland_, and there quitted the Vessel, which was afterwards
seized and brought into the River of _Thames._

Some Time after this, _Philip Roche_ came to _London_, and making some
Claim for Money, he had made Insurance of, in the Name of _John Eustace_,
the Officer was apprized of the Fraud, and he arrested and flung into the
Compter; from whence directing a Letter to his Wife, she shewed it to a
Friend, who discovered by it, that he was the principal Villain concerned
in the Destruction of _Peter Tartoue_, and the Crew. Upon this, an
Information was given to my Lord _Carteret_, that the Person who went by
the Name of _John Eustace_, was _Philip Roche_, as aforesaid; and being
brought down by his Lordships Warrant, he stifly deny'd it for some Time,
notwithstanding a Letter was found in his Pocket, directed to him by the
Name of _Roche_; but being confronted by a Captain of a Ship, who knew him
well, he confessed it, but prevaricated in several Particulars; whereupon
he was committed to _Newgate_ upon violent Suspicion, and the next Day was
brought down again at his own Request, confessed the whole, desired to be
made an Evidence, and promised to convict three Men worse than himself. Two
were discovered by him, who died miserably in the _Marshalsea_, and _Roche_
himself was afterwards try'd, (no more being taken,) found Guilty of the
Pyracy, and executed.

An ABSTRACT of the Civil Law and Statute Law now in Force, in Relation
to Pyracy.

A _Pyrate is_ Hostis humanis generis, _a common Enemy, with whom
neither Faith nor Oath is to be kept, according to_ Tully. _And by the Laws
of Nature, Princes and States are responsible for their Neglect, if they do
not provide Remedies for restraining these sort of Robberies. Though
Pyrates are called common Enemies, yet they are properly not to be term'd
so. He is only to be honour'd with that Name, says_ Cicero, _who hath a
Commonwealth, a Court, a Treasury, Consent and Concord of Citizens, and
some Way, if Occasion be, of Peace and League: But when they have reduced
themselves into a Government or State, as those of_ Algier, Sally, Tripoly,
Tunis, _and the like, they then are allowed the Solemnities of War, and the
Rights of Legation._

_If Letters of_ Marque _be granted to a Merchant, and he furnishes out a
Ship, with a Captain and Mariners, and they, instead of taking the Goods,
or Ships of that Nation against whom their Commission is awarded, take the
Ship and Goods of a Friend, this is Pyracy; and if the Ship arrive in any
Part of his Majesty's Dominions, it will be seized, and for ever lost to
the Owners; but they are no way liable to make Satisfaction._

_If a Ship is assaulted and taken by the Pyrates, for Redemption of which,
the Master becomes a Slave to the Captors, by the Law_ Marine, _the Ship
and Lading are tacitly obliged for his Redemption, by a general
Contribution; but if it happen through his own Folly, then no Contribution
is to be made._