No doubt, but the Reader will have a Curiosity of knowing what became of
this Man, and what were the true Grounds of so many false Reports
concerning him; there fore, I shall, in as brief a Manner as I can, give
his History.

He was born in the West of _England_ near _Plymouth_ in _Devonshire_, being
bred to the Sea, he served as a Mate of a Merchant-Man, in several trading
Voyages: It happened before the Peace of _Ryfwick_, when there was an
Alliance betwixt _Spain_, _England_, _Holland_, _&c._ against _France_,
that the _French_ in _Martinico_, carried on a smugling Trade with the
_Spaniards_ on the Continent of _Peru_, which by the Laws of _Spain_, is
not allowed to Friends in Time of Peace, for none but native _Spaniards_
are permitted to Traffick in those Parts, or set their Feet on Shore,
unless at any Time they are brought as Prisoners; wherefore they constantly
keep certain Ships cruising along the Coast, whom they call _Guarda del
Costa_, who have the Orders to make Prizes of all ships they can light of
within five Leagues of Land. Now the _French_ growing very bold in Trade,
and the _Spaniards_ being poorly provided with Ships, and those they had
being of no Force, it often fell out, that when they light of the _French_
Smuglers, they were not strong enough to attack them, therefore it was
resolv'd in _Spain_, to hire two or three stout foreign Ships for their
Service, which being known at _Bristol_, some Merchants of that City,
fitted out two Ships of thirty odd Guns, and 120 Hands each, well furnished
with Provision and Ammunition, and all other Stores; and the Hire being
agreed for, by some Agents for _Spain_, they were commanded to sail for
_Corunna_ or the _Groine_, there to receive their Orders, and to take on
Board some _Spanish_ Gentlemen, who were to go Passengers to _New-Spain_.

Of one of these Ships, which I take to be call'd the _Duke_, Capt. _Gibson_
Commander, _Avery_ was first Mate, and being a Fellow of more Cunning than
Courage, he insinuated himself into the good Will of several of the boldest
Fellows on Board the other Ship, as well as that which he was on Board of;
having sounded their Inclinations before he opened himself, and finding
them ripe for his Design, he, at length, proposed to them, to run away with
the Ship, telling them what great Wealth was to be had upon the Coasts of
_India_. It was no sooner said than agreed to, and they resolved to execute
their Plot at Ten a Clock the Night following.

It must be observ'd, the Captain was one of those who are mightily addicted
to Punch, so that he passed most of his Time on Shore, in some little
drinking Ordinary; but this Day he did not go on Shore as usual; however,
this did not spoil the Design, for he took his usual Dose on Board, and so
got to Bed before the Hour appointed for the Business: The Men also who
were not privy to the Design, turn'd into their Hammocks, leaving none upon
Deck but the Conspirators, who, indeed, were the greatest Part of the
Ship's Crew. At the Time agreed on, the _Dutchess_'s Long-Boat appear'd,
which _Avery_ hailing in the usual Manner, was answered by the Men in her,
_Is your drunken Boatswain on Board?_ Which was the Watch-Word agreed
between them, and _Avery_ replying in the Affirmative, the Boat came aboard
with sixteen stout Fellows, and joined the Company.