At length his Attendants return'd with his Ransom, which he paid, and was
discharged; he sail'd for the Port of _Miletum_, where, as soon as he was
arriv'd, he used all his Art and Industry in fitting out a Squadron of
Ships, which he equipp'd and arm'd at his own Charges; and sailing in Quest
of the Pyrates, he surpriz'd them as they lay at Anchor among the Islands,
and took those who had taken him before, with some others; the Money he
found upon them he made Prize of, to reimburse his Charges, and he carry'd
the Men to _Pergamus_ or _Troy_, and there secured them in Prison: In the
mean Time, he apply'd himself to _Junius_, then Governor of _Asia_, to whom
it belonged to judge and determine of the Punishment of these Men; but
_Junius_ finding there was no Money to be had, answered _Cæsar_, that he
would think at his Leisure, what was to be done with those Prisoners;
_Cæsar_ took his Leave of him, returned back to _Pergamus_, and commanded
that the Prisoners should be brought out and executed, according to Law in
that Case provided; which is taken Notice of, in a Chapter at the End of
this Book, concerning the Laws in Cases of Pyracy: And thus he gave them
that Punishment in Earnest, which he had often threatned them with in Jest.

_Cæsar_ went strait to Rome, where, being engaged in the Designs of his own
private Ambition, as were almost all the leading Men in Rome, the Pyrates
who were left, had Time to increase to a prodigious Strength; for while the
civil Wars lasted, the Seas were left unguarded, so that _Plutarch_ tells
us, that they erected diverse Arsenals full of all manner of warlike
Stores, made commodious Harbours, set up Watch-Towers and Beacons all along
the Coasts of _Cilicia_; that they had a mighty Fleet, well equipp'd and
furnish'd, with Galliots of Oars, mann'd, not only with Men of desperate
Courage, but also with expert Pilots and Mariners; they had their Ships of
Force, and light Pinnaces for cruising and making Discoveries, in all no
less than a thousand Sail; so gloriously set out, that they were as much to
be envied for their gallant Shew, as fear'd for their Force; having the
Stern and Quarters all gilded with Gold and their Oars plated with Silver,
as well as purple Sails; as if their greatest Delight had been to glory in
their Iniquity. Nor were they content with committing Pyracies and
Insolencies by Sea, they committed as great Depredations by Land, or rather
made Conquests; for they took and sack'd no less than four hundred Cities,
laid several others under Contributions, plundered the Temples of the Gods,
and inriched themselves with the Offerings deposited in them; they often
landed Bodies of Men, who not only plundered the Villages along the Sea
Coast, but ransacked the fine Houses of the Noblemen along the Tiber. A
Body of them once took _Sextillius_ and _Bellinus_, two _Roman_ Prætors, in
their purple Robes, going from Rome to their Governments, and carried them
away with all their Sergeants, Officers and Vergers; they also took the
Daughter of _Antonius_ a consular Person, and one who had obtained the
Honour of a Triumph, as she was going to the Country House of her Father.