The next Day _Davis_ went on Shore himself, as if it were out of greater
Respect to bring the Governor on Board: He was received with the usual
Civility, and he, and other principal Pyrates, who, by the Way, had assumed
the Title of Lords, and as such took upon them to advise or councel their
Captain upon any important Occasion; and likewise held certain Priviledges,
which the common Pyrates were debarr'd from, as walking the Quarter-Deck,
using the great Cabin, going ashore at Pleasure, and treating with foreign
Powers, that is, with the Captains of Ships they made Prize of; I say,
_Davis_ and some of the Lords were desired to walk up to the Governor's
House, to take some Refreshment before they went on Board; they accepted it
without the least Suspicion, but never returned again; for an Ambuscade was
laid, a Signal being given, a whole Volley was fired upon them; they every
Man dropp'd, except one, this one fled back, and escaped into the Boat, and
got on Board the Ship: _Davis_ was shot through the Bowels, yet he rise
again, and made a weak Effort to get away, but his Strength soon forsook
him, and he dropp'd down dead; just as he fell, he perceived he was
followed, and drawing out his Pistols, fired them at his Pursuers; Thus
like a game Cock, giving a dying Blow, that he might not fall unrevenged.

CHAP. IX. OF Captain _Bartho. Roberts_, And his CREW.

B_Artholomew Roberts_ sailed in an honest Employ, from _London_
aboard of the _Princess_, Captain _Plumb_ Commander, of which Ship he was
second Mate: He left _England, November_ 1719, and arrived at _Guiney_
about _February_ following, and being at _Anamaboe_, taking in Slaves for
the _West-Indies_, was taken in the said Ship by Captain _Howel Davis_, as
mentioned in the preceeding Chapter. In the beginning he was very averse to
this sort of Life, and would certainly have escaped from them, had a fair
Opportunity presented it self; yet afterwards he changed his Principles, as
many besides him have done upon another Element, and perhaps for the same
Reason too, _viz._ Preferment,--and what he did not like as a private Man
he could reconcile to his Conscience as a Commander.

_Davis_ being cut off in the manner beforementioned, the Company found
themselves under a Necessity of filling up his Post, for which there
appear'd two or three Candidates among the select Part of them, that were
distinguish'd by the Title of Lords, such were _Sympson, Ashplant, Anstis_,
&c. and on canvassing this Matter, how shatter'd and weak a Condition their
Government must be without a Head, since _Davis_ had been remov'd, in the
manner beforemention'd, my Lord _Dennis_ propos'd, its said, over a Bowl to
this Purpose.