I cannot but take Notice of two among the Crowd, of those disfigured from
the Blast of Powder just before mentioned, _viz. William Main_ and _Roger
Ball._ An Officer of the Ship seeing a Silver Call hang at the Wast of the
former, said to him, _I presume you are Boatswain of this Ship. Then you
presume wrong_, answered he, _for I am Boatswain of the_ Royal Fortune,
_Captain_ Roberts _Commander. Then Mr._ Boatswain _you will be hanged I
believe_, replies the Officer. _That is as your Honour pleases_, answered
he again, and was for turning away: But the Officer desired to know of him,
how the Powder, which had made them in that Condition, came to take
Fire.--_By G_-- says he, _they are all mad and bewitch'd, for I have lost a
good Hat by it._ (the Hat and he being both blown out of the Cabin Gallery,
into the Sea.) _But what signifies a Hat Friend_, says the Officer.-_Not
much_ answer'd he, the Men being busy in stripping him of his Shoes and
Stockings.--The Officer then enquired of him, whether _Roberts_'s Company
were as likely Fellows as these.-- _There are_ 120 _of them_, (answered he)
_as clever Fellows as ever trod Shoe Leather: Would I were with them!--No
doubt on't_, says the Officer.--_By G-- it is naked Truth_, answered he,
looking down and seeing himself, by this Time, quite striped.

The Officer then approached _Roger Ball_, who was seated in a private
Corner, with a Look as sullen as Winter, and asked him, how he came blown
up in that frightful Manner.--_Why_, says he, John Morris _fired a Pistol
into the Powder, and if he had not done it, I would_, (bearing his Pain
without the least Complaint.) The Officer gave him to understand he was
Surgeon, and if he desired it, he would dress him; but he swore it should
not be done, and that if any Thing was applied to him, he would tear it
off.--Nevertheless the Surgeon had good Nature enough to dress him, tho'
with much trouble: At Night he was in a kind of _Delirium_, and raved on
the Bravery of _Roberts_, saying, he should shortly be released, as soon as
they should meet him, which procured him a lashing down upon the
Forecastle, which he resisting with all his Force, caused him to be used
with the more Violence, so that he was tied down with so much Severity,
that his Flesh being sore and tender with the blowing up, he died next Day
of a Mortification.

They secured the Prisoners with Pinions, and Shackles, but the Ship was so
much disabled in the Engagement, that they had once Thoughts to set her on
Fire; but this would have given them the Trouble of taking the Pyrates
wounded Men on Board themselves, and that they were certain the _Royal
Fortune_ would wait for their Consort's Return, they lay by her two Days,
repaired her Rigging and other Damages, and sent her into _Princes_, with
the _French_ Men, and four of their own Hands.

On the 9th in the Evening, the _Swallow_ gained the Cape again, and saw the
_Royal Fortune_ standing into the Bay with the _Neptune_, Captain _Hill_,
of _London_: A good Presage of the next Day's Success, for they did not
doubt but the Temptation of Liquor, and Plunder, they might find in this
their new Prize, would make the Pyrates very confused; and so it happened.