In their Voyage to the _West-Indies_, these Pyrates took a _Portuguese_
Bark, wherein they got valuable Plunder, but not contented with that alone,
they said they would have a little Game with the Men, and so ordered them a
Sweat, more for the Brutes Diversion, than the poor Men's Healths; which
Operation is performed after this Manner; they stick up lighted Candles
circularly round the Mizon-Mast, between Decks, within which the Patients
one at a Time enter; without the Candles, the Pyrates post themselves, as
many as can stand, forming another Circle, and armed with Pen-Knives,
Tucks, Forks, Compasses, _&c._ and as he runs round and round, the Musick
playing at the same Time, they prick him with those Instuments; this
usually lasts for 10 or 12 Minutes, which is as long as the miserable Man
can support himself. When the Sweating was over, they gave the _Portuguese_
their Boat with a small Quantity of Provisions, and set their Vessel on
Fire.

Near the Island of St. _Lucia_, they took a Sloop belonging to _Barbadoes_,
which they plundered, and then burnt, forcing some of the Men to sign their
Articles, the others they beat and cut in a barbarous Manner, because they
refused to take on with the Crew, and then sent them away in the Boat, who
all got safe afterwards to _Barbadoes._

The next was a _Martinico_ Man, which they served as bad as they had done
the others, but did not burn their Ship. Some Days afterwards in running
down to Leeward, they took one Captain _Hawkins_, coming from _Jamaica_,
loaden chiefly with Logwood; they took out of her, Stores, Arms,
Ammunition, and several other Things, as they thought fit, and what they
did not want they threw over-board or destroy'd; they cut the Cables to
pieces, knocked down the Cabins, broke all the Windows, and in short took
all the Pains in the World to be Mischievous. They took by Force, out of
her, Mr. _Burridge_ and Mr. _Stephens_, the two Mates, and some other
Hands; and after detaining the Ship from the 22d of _March_, to the 29th,
they let her go. On the 27th they took a _Rhode Island_ Sloop, Captain
_Pike_, and all his Men were obliged to go aboard the Pyrate; but the Mate
being a grave sober Man, and not inclinable to stay, they told him, he
should have his Discharge, and that it should be immediately writ on his
Back; whereupon he was sentenced to receive ten Lashes from every Man in
the Ship, which was rigorously put in Execution.

The next Day Mr. _Burridge_, Captain _Hawkins_'s Mate, sign'd their
Articles, which was so agreeable to them (he being a good Artist and
Sailor) that they gave three Huzza's, fir'd all the Guns in the Ship, and
appointed him Master: The Day was spent in boysterous Mirth, roaring and
drinking of Healths, among which was, by Mistake, that of King _George_ the
II. for you must know, now and then the Gentry are provok'd to sudden Fits
of Loyalty, by the Expectation of an Act of Grace: It seems Captain _Pike_
had heard at _Jamaica_ that the King was dead, so the Pyrates immediately
hoisted their Ensign Half-Mast (the Death Signal) and proclaim'd his Royal
Highness, saying, _They doubted not but there would be a general Pardon in
a twelve Month, which they would embrace and come in upon, but damn 'em if
they should be excepted out of it, they would murder every_ Englishman
_that should fall into their Hands._