In their Voyage to Ireland, they avoided St. _George_'s Channel, and
sailing North about, they put into one of the Northern Ports of that
Kingdom; there they disposed of their Sloop, and coming on Shore they
separated themselves, some going to _Cork_, and some to _Dublin_, 18 of
whom obtain'd their Pardons afterwards of K. _William_. When _Avery_ had
remain'd some Time in this Kingdom, he was afraid to offer his Diamonds to
sale, least an Enquiry into his Manner of coming by them should occasion a
Discovery; therefore considering with himself what was best to be done, he
fancied there were some Persons at _Bristol_, whom he might venture to
trust; upon which, he resolved to pass over into _England_; he did so, and
going into _Devonshire_, he sent to one of these Friends to meet him at a
Town called _Biddiford_; when he had communicated himself to his Friends,
and consulted with him about the Means of his Effects, they agreed, that
the safest Method would be, to put them in the Hands of some Merchants, who
being Men of Wealth and Credit in the World, no Enquiry would be made how
they came by them; this Friend telling him he was very intimate with some
who were very fit for the Purpose, and if he would but allow them a good
Commission would do the Business very faithfully. _Avery_ liked the
Proposal, for he found no other Way of managing his Affairs, since he could
not appear in them himself; therefore his Friend going back to _Bristol_,
and opening the Matter to the Merchants, they made _Avery_ a Visit at
_Biddiford_, where, after some Protestations of Honour and Integrity, he
delivered them his Effects, consisting of Diamonds and some Vessels of
Gold; they gave him a little Money for his present Subsistance, and so they
parted.

He changed his Name and lived at _Biddiford_, without making any Figure,
and therefore there was no great Notice taken of him; yet let one or two of
his Relations know where he was, who came to see him. In some Time his
little Money was spent, yet he heard nothing from his Merchants; he writ to
them often, and after much Importunity they sent him a small Supply, but
scarce sufficient to pay his Debts: In fine, the Supplies they sent him
from Time to Time, were so small, that they were not sufficient to give him
Bread, nor could he get that little, without a great deal of Trouble and
Importunity, wherefore being weary of his Life, he went privately to
_Bristol_, to speak to the Merchants himself, where instead of Money he met
a most shocking Repulse, for when he desired them to come to an Account
with him, they silenced him by threatening to discover him, so that our
Merchants were as good Pyrates at Land as he was at Sea.