T_O all whom these Persents shall come, send Greeting. WHEREAS,
Captain_ Peter Solgard, _Commander of his Majesty's Ship the_ Greyhound,
(_the present Station Ship of this Province_,) _in his Cruize, having
Intelligence of two Pyrate Sloops of considerable Force in Consortship,
under the Command of one_ Low, _a notorious Pyrate, that had for upward of
two Years, committed many Depredations, Murders and Barbarities, upon many
of his Majesty's Subjects and Allies, lately come upon this Coast, hath,
with great Diligence, and utmost Application, pursued, overtaken, and after
a stubborn Resistance, vanquished and overcome both of them, taking one,
and driving the other from our Coast; which Action, as it is glorious in it
self, so it is glorious in the publick Benefits and Advantages that flow
from it_, (_to wit_) _The Safety and Freedom of our own Trade and Commerce,
and of all the neighbouring Provinces on this Continent, such signal
Service done against the Enemies of Mankind, merits the Applause of all
good Men, but more immediately from those of this Province, who are
appointed his particular Care and Charge. WE therefore, the Mayor, Aldermen
and Commonalty of the City of_ New-York, _assembled in Common Council, to
express our grateful Sense and Acknowledgment, to the said Captain_ Peter
Solgard, _for so noble and faithful a Discharge of his Duty, and as a
particular Mark of the great Esteem and just Regard we bear to his kind
Acceptance of the Freedom of the Corporation of this City of_ New-York,
_and that he will please to become a Fellow Citizen with us._ These are
therefore _to certify and declare, that the said Captain_ Peter Solgard _is
hereby admitted, received and allowed a Freeman and Citizen of the said
City of_ New-York, _to have, hold, enjoy and partake of all and singular
Advantages, Benefits, Liberties, Privileges, Franchises, Freedoms and
Immunities whatsoever, granted or belonging to the same City_: In Testimony
_thereof, the said Mayor hath hereunto subscribed his Name, and caused the
Seal of the said City to be affix'd the_ 25_th Day of_ July, _in the ninth
Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord_ George, _by the Grace of God, King
of_ Great Britain, France _and_ Ireland, _Defender of the Faith_, &c. Anno.
Dom. 1723.

William Sharpas, _Clerk._

R. Walter _Mayor._

This narrow Escape of _Low_ and his Companions, one would have thought
might have brought them to a little Consideration of their black and horrid
Crimes, and to look upon this Interval as an Opportunity put into their
Hands by Providence, to reconcile themselves to God, by a hearty and
sincere Repentance. But alass they were dead to all Goodness, and had not
so much as one Spark of Virtue to stir them up to be thankful for such an
eminent Deliverance: But instead thereof, vented a Million of Oaths and
Curses upon the Captain of the _Greyhound_, vowing to execute Vengeance
upon all they should meet with afterwards, for the Indignity he put upon
them.

The first Prey that they met with, after their Flight, was a small Sloop
belonging to _Nantucket_, a Whale-Fishing, about 80 Miles from Land; the
Master of which, one _Nathan Skiff_, a brisk young Fellow, the Pyrates
cruelly whipp'd naked about the Deck, making his Torture their Sport; after
which they cut of his Ears, and last of all shot him through the Head, and
then sunk his Vessel; putting the rest of the Hands into their Whale-Boat,
with a Compass, a little Water, and a few Biskets; and it being good
Weather, they providentially got safe to _Nantucket_, beyond all
Expectation.