_Vane_ cruised some Time off the Bar, in hopes to catch _Yeats_, and
unfortunately for them, took two Ships coming out, bound to _London_, and
while the Prisoners were aboard, some of the Pyrates gave out, that they
designed to go into one of the Rivers to the Southward. Colonel _Rhet_,
upon hearing this, sailed over the Bar the 15th of _September_, with the
two Sloops before mentioned; and having the Wind Northerly, went after the
Pyrate _Vane_, and scoured the Rivers and Inlets to the Southward; but not
meeting with him, tacked and stood for Cape _Fear_ River, in Prosecution of
his first Design. On the 26th following, in the Evening, the Colonel with
his small Squadron, entered the River, and saw, over a Point of Land, three
Sloops at an Anchor, which were Major _Bonnet_ and his Prizes; but it
happened that in going up the River, the Pilot run the Colonel's Sloops
aground, and it was dark before they were on Float, which hindered their
getting up that Night. The Pyrates soon discovered the Sloops, but not
knowing who they were, or upon what Design they came into that River, they
manned three Canoes, and sent them down to take them, but they quickly
found their Mistake, and returned to the Sloop, with the unwelcome News.
Major _Bonnet_ made Preparations that Night for engaging, and took all the
Men out of the Prizes. He shewed Captain _Manwaring_, one of his Prisoners,
a Letter, he had just wrote, which he declared he would send to the
Governor of _Carolina_; the Letter was to this Effect, _viz. That if the
Sloops, which then appeared, were sent out against him, by the said
Governor, and he should get clear off, that he would burn and destroy all
Ships or Vessels going in or coming out of_ South-Carolina. The next
Morning they got under Sail, and came down the River, designing only a
running Fight. Colonel _Rhet_'s Sloops got likewise under Sail, and stood
for him, getting upon each Quarter of the Pyrate, with Intent to board him;
which he perceiving, edged in towards the Shore, and being warmly engaged,
their Sloop ran a-ground: The _Carolina_ Sloops being in the same shoal
Water, were in the same Circumstances; the _Henry_, in which Colonel _Rhet_
was, grounded within Pistol shot of the Pyrate, and on his Bow; the other
Sloop grounded right a-head of him, and almost out of Gun-Shot, which made
her of little Service to the Colonel, while they lay a-ground.