Aboard of this _Guiney_ Man _Teach_ mounted no Guns, and named her the
_Queen Ann's Revenge_; and cruising near the Island of St. _Vincent_, took
a large Ship, called the _Great Allen_, _Christopher Taylor_ Commander; the
Pyrates plundered her of what they though fit, put all the Men ashore upon
the Island above mentioned, and then set Fire to the Ship.

A few Days after, _Teach_ fell in with the _Scarborogh_ Man of War, of 30
Guns, who engaged him for some Hours; but she finding the Pyrate well
mann'd, and having tried her strength, gave over the Engagement, and
returned to _Barbadoes_, the Place of her Station; and _Teach_ sailed
towards the _Spanish America_.

In his Way he met with a Pyrate Sloop of ten Guns, commanded by one Major
_Bonnet_, lately a Gentleman of good Reputation and Estate in the Island of
_Barbadoes_, whom he joyned; but in a few Days after, _Teach_, finding that
_Bonnet_ knew nothing of a maritime Life, with the Consent of his own Men,
put in another Captain, one _Richards_, to Command _Bonnet_'s Sloop, and
took the Major on aboard his own Ship, telling him, that _as he had not
been used to the Fatigues and Care of such a Post, it would be better for
him to decline it, and live easy and at his Pleasure, in such a Ship as
his, where he should not be obliged to perform Duty, but follow his own
Inclinations._

At _Turniff_ ten Leagues short of the Bay of _Honduras_, the Pyrates took
in fresh Water; and while they were at an Anchor there, they saw a Sloop
coming in, whereupon, _Richards_ in the Sloop called the _Revenge_, slipped
his Cable, and run out to meet her; who upon seeing the black Flag hoisted,
struck his Sail and came to, under the Stern of _Teach_ the Commadore. She
was called the _Adventure_, from _Jamaica_, _David Harriot_ Master. They
took him and his Men aboard the great Ship, and sent a Number of other
Hands with _Israel Hands_, Master of _Teach_'s Ship, to Man the Sloop for
the pyratical Account.

The 9th of April, they weighed from _Turniff_, having lain there about a
Week, and sailed to the Bay, where they found a Ship and four Sloops, three
of the latter belonged to _Jonathan Bernard_, of _Jamaica_, and the other
to Captain _James_; the Ship was of _Boston_, called the _Protestant
Cæsar_, Captain _Wyar_ Commander. _Teach_ hoisted his Black Colours, and
fired a Gun, upon which Captain _Wyar_ and all his Men, left their Ship,
and got ashore in their Boat. _Teach_'s Quarter-Master, and eight of his
Crew, took Possession of _Wyar_'s Ship, and _Richards_ secured all the
Sloops, one of which they burnt out of spight to the Owner; the _Protestant
Cæsar_ they also burnt, after they had plundered her, because she belonged
to _Boston_, where some Men had been hanged for Pyracy; and the three
Sloops belonging to _Bernard_ they let go.