_I must observe another Thing, that the Pyrates generally shift their
Rovings, according to the Season of the Year; in the Summer they cruise
mostly along the Coast of the Continent of _America_, but the Winters
there, being a little too cold for them, they follow the Sun, and go
towards the Islands, at the approach of cold Weather. Every Man who has
used the _West-India_ Trade, knows this to be true; therefore, since we are
so well acquainted with all their Motions, I cannot see why our Men of War
under a proper Regulation, may not go to the Southward, instead of lying up
all the Winter useless: But I shall proceed too far in this Enquiry, I
shall therefore quit it, and say something of the following Sheets, which
the Author may venture to assure the Reader that they have one Thing to
recommend them, which is Truth; those Facts which he himself was not an
Eye-Witness of, he had from the authentick Relations of the Persons
concern'd in taking the Pyrates, as well as from the Mouths of the Pyrates
themselves, after they were taken, and he conceives no Man can produce
better Testimonies to support the Credit of any History._

_It will be observed, that the Account of the Actions of _Roberts_ runs
into a greater Length, than that of any other Pyrate, for which we can
assign two Reasons, first, because he ravaged the Seas longer than the
rest, and of Consequence there must be a greater Scene of Business in his
Life: Secondly, being resolved not to weary the Reader, with tiresome
Repetitions: When we found the Circumstances in _Roberts_'s Live, and other
Pyrates, either as to pyratical Articles, or any Thing else, to be the
same, we thought it best to give them but once, and chose _Roberts_'s Life
for that Purpose, he having made more Noise in the World, than some
others._

_As to the Lives of our two female Pyrates, we must confess they may appear
a little Extravagant, yet they are never the less true for seeming so, but
as they were publickly try'd for their Pyracies, there are living Witnesses
enough to justify what we have laid down concerning them; it is certain, we
have produced some Particulars which were not so publickly known, the
Reason is, we were more inquisitive into the Circumstances of their past
Lives, than other People, who had no other Design, than that of gratifying
their own private Curiosity: If there are some Incidents and Turns in their
Stories, which may give them a little the Air of a _Novel_, they are not
invented or contrived for that Purpose, it is a Kind of Reading this Author
is but little acquainted with, but as he himself was exceedingly diverted
with them, when they were related to him, he thought they might have the
same Effect upon the Reader._