By this time _Black-beard_'s Sloop fleeted, as Mr. _Maynard_'s Sloops were
rowing towards him, which being not above a Foot high in the Waste, and
consequently the Men all exposed, as they came near together, (there being
hitherto little or no Execution done, on either Side,) the Pyrate fired a
Broadside, charged with all Manner of small Shot. ----A fatal Stroke to
them! The Sloop the Lieutenant was in, having twenty Men killed and
wounded, and the other Sloop nine. This could not be help'd, for there
being no Wind, they were oblig'd to keep to their Oars, otherwise the
Pyrate would have got away from him, which, it seems, the Lieutenant was
resolute to prevent.

After this unlucky Blow, _Black-beard_'s Sloop fell Broadside to the Shore;
Mr. _Maynard_'s other Sloop, which was called the _Ranger_, fell a-stern,
being, for the present, disabled; so the Lieutenant finding his own Sloop
had Way, and would soon be on Board of _Teach_, he ordered all his Men
down, for fear of another Broadside, which must have been their
Destruction, and the loss of their Expedition. Mr. _Maynard_ was the only
Person that kept the Deck, except the Man at the Helm, whom he directed to
lye down snug, and the Men in the Hold were ordered to get their Pistols
and their Swords ready for close fighting, and to come up at his Command;
in order to which, two Ladders were placed in the Hatch-Way for the more
Expedition. When the Lieutenant's Sloop boarded the other, Captain
_Teach_'s Men threw in several new fashioned sort of Grenadoes, _viz._ Case
Bottles fill'd with Powder, and small Shot, Slugs, and Pieces of Lead or
Iron, with a quick Match in the Mouth of it, which being lighted without
Side, presently runs into the Bottle to the Powder, and as it is instantly
thrown on Board, generally does great Execution, besides putting all the
Crew into a Confusion; but by good Providence, they had not that Effect
here; the Men being in the Hold, and _Black-beard_ seeing few or no Hands
aboard, told his Men, _That they were all knock'd on the Head, except three
or four; and therefore, says he, let's jump on Board, and cut them to
Pieces._

Whereupon, under the Smoak of one of the Bottles just mentioned,
_Black-beard_ enters with fourteen Men, over the Bows of _Maynard_'s Sloop,
and were not seen by him till the Air cleared; however, he just then gave a
Signal to his Men, who all rose in an Instant, and attack'd the Pyrates
with as much Bravery as ever was done upon such an Occasion: _Black-beard_
and the Lieutenant fired the first Pistol at each other, by which the
Pyrate received a Wound, and then engaged with Swords, till the
Lieutenant's unluckily broke, and stepping back to cock a Pistol,
_Black-beard_, with his Cutlash, was striking at that Instant, that one of
_Maynard_'s Men gave him a terrible Wound in the Neck and Throat, by which
the Lieutenant came off with a small Cut over his Fingers.