In his Defence, he says, he was forced from a Mate's Employ on Board a
Sloop call'd the _Greyhound_, of St. _Christophers, Oct._ 1720. The Pyrate
having drubbed him, and broke his Head, only for offering to go away when
that Sloop was dismissed. Custom and Success had since indeed blunted, and,
in some Measure, worn out the Sense of Shame; but that he had really for
several Months past been sick, and disqualified for any Duty, and though
_Roberts_ had forced him on this Expedition much against his Will, yet the
Evidence must be sensible, the Title of Captain gave him no Pre-eminence,
for he could not be obeyed, though he had often called to them, to leave
off their Fire, when he perceived it to be the King's Ship.

The Sickness he alledged, but more especially the Circumstance of losing
his Leg, were Aggravations of his Fault, shewing him more alert on such
Occasions, than he was now willing to be thought: As to the Name of
Captain, if it were allowed to give him no Precedence out of Battle, yet
here it was proved a Title of Authority; such an Authority as could direct
an Engagement against the King's Colours, and therefore he was in the
highest Degree, _Guilty._

_John Walden._

CAptain _John Trahern_, and _George Fenn_, deposed, the Prisoner to
be one of the Number, who, in an open Boat, pyratically assailed, and took
their Ship, and was remarkably busy at Mischief, having a Pole-Ax in his
Hand, which served him instead of a Key, to all the lock'd Doors and Boxes
he come nigh: Also in particular, he cut the Cable of our Ship, when the
other Pyrates were willing, and busied at heaving up the Anchor, saying,
Captain, what signifies this Trouble of _Yo Hope_ and straining in hot
Weather; there are more Anchors at _London_, and besides, your Ship is to
be burnt.

_William Smith_, (a Prisoner acquitted,) says _Walden_ was known among the
Pyrates mostly, by the Nick-Name of _Miss Nanney_ (ironically its presumed
from the Hardness of his Temper) that he was one of the twenty who
voluntarily came on Board the _Ranger_, in the Chace she made out after the
_Swallow_, and by a Shot from that Ship, lost his Leg; his Behaviour in the
Fight, till then, being bold and daring.

The _President_, called for _Harry Glasby_, and bid him relate a Character
of the Prisoner, and what Custom was among them, in Relation to these
voluntary Expeditions, out of their proper Ship; and this of going on Board
the _Ranger_, in particular.

And he gave in for Evidence, that the Prisoner was looked on as a brisk
Hand, (_i. e._ as he farther explained it, a stanch Pyrate, a great Rogue)
that when the _Swallow_ first appeared in Sight, every one was willing to
believe her a _Portuguese_, because Sugar was very much in Demand, and had
made some Jarring and Dissention between the two Companies, (the
_Fortune_'s People drinking Punch, when the _Ranger_'s could not) that
_Roberts_, on Sight of the _Swallow_, hailed the new _Ranger_, and bid them
right Ship, and get under Sail; there is, says he, Sugar in the Offing,
bring it in, that we may have no more Mumbling; ordering at the same Time
the Word to be pass'd among the Crew, who would go to their Assistance, and
immediately the Boat was full of Men, to transport themselves.

_President._ Then every one that goes on Board of any Prize, does it
voluntarily? Or were there here any other Reasons for it?