The Harbour is so convenient for Wooding and Watering, that it occasions
many of our trading Ships, especially those of _Bristol_, to call in there,
with large Cargoes of Beer, Syder, and strong Liquors, which they Exchange
with these private Traders, for Slaves and Teeth, purchased by them at the
_Rio Nune_'s, and other Places to the Northward, so that here was what they
call good Living.

Hither _Roberts_ came the End of _June_, 1721, and had Intelligence that
the _Swallow_, and _Weymouth_, two Men of War, of 50 Guns each, had left
that River about a Month before, and designed to return about _Christmas_;
so that the Pyrates could indulge themselves with all the Satisfaction in
the World, in that they knew they were not only secure whilst there, but
that in going down the Coast, after the Men of War, they should always be
able to get such Intelligence of their Rendezvous, as would serve to make
their Expedition safe. So after six Weeks stay, the Ships being cleaned and
fitted, and the Men weary of whoring and drinking, they bethought
themselves of Business, and went to Sea the Beginning of _August_, taking
their Progress down the whole Coast, as low as _Jaquin_, plundering every
Ship they met, of what was valuable in her, and sometimes to be more
mischieviously wicked, would throw what they did not want, overboard,
accumulating Cruelty to Theft.

In this Range, they exchanged their old _French_ Ship, for a fine Frigate
built Ship, call'd the _Onslow_, belonging to the Royal _African_ Company,
Captain _Gee_ Commander, which happened to lye at _Sestos_, to get Water
and Necessaries for the Company. A great many of Captain _Gee_'s Men were
ashore, when _Robert_'s bore down, and so the Ship consequently surpriz'd
into his Hands, tho' had they been all on Board, it was not likely the Case
would have been otherwise, the Sailors, most of them, voluntarily joyning
the Pyrates, and encouraging the same Disposition in the Soldiers, (who
were going Passengers with them to _Cape-Corso-Castle_) whose Ears being
constantly tickled with the Feats and Gallantry of those Fellows, made them
fancy, that _to go_, was only being bound on a Voyage of Knight Errantry
(to relieve the Distress'd, and gather up Fame) and so they likewise
offer'd themselves; but here the Pyrates were at a Stand, they entertain'd
so contemptible a Notion of Landmen, that they put 'em off with Refusals
for some time, till at length, being weary'd with Solicitations, and
pittying a Parcel of stout Fellows, which they said, were going to starve
upon a little Canky and Plantane, they accepted of them, and allow'd them Â¼
Share, as it was then term'd out of Charity.