The Storm just spoken of, was found to have done incredible Damage in those
Parts of the World; but however, it appear'd to have been more violent at
_Jamaica_, both to the Island and Shipping, there was such a prodigious
Swell of the Sea, that several hundred Tuns of Stones and Rocks, were
thrown over the Wall of the Town of _Port Royal_, and the Town it self was
overflowed, and above half destroy'd, there being the next Morning five
Foot Water from one End to the other; the Cannon of Fort _Charles_ were
dismounted, and some washed into the Sea, and four hundred People lost
their Lives; a more melancholly Sight was scarce ever seen when the Water
ebb'd away, all the Streets being covered with Ruins of Houses, Wrecks of
Vessels, and a great Number of dead Bodies, for forty Sail of Ships, in the
Harbour, were cast away.

The Brigantine return'd to the Island, where she had left the Scooner, who
being ready to sail, it was put to the Vote of the Company, what Voyage to
take next; and herein they follow'd the Advice of the Captain, who thought
it not adviseable to go any farther to Leeward, because of the Men of War
who were cruising in their several Stations, which they were not at all
fond of meeting, and therefore it was agreed to go to the _Azores_, or
Western Islands.

The latter End of _July, Low_ took a _French_ Ship of 34 Guns, and carried
her along with him to the _Azores._ He came into St. _Michael_'s Road the
3d of _August_, and took seven Sail that were lying there, _viz._ the
_Nostre Dame, Mere de Dieu_, Captain _Roach_ Commander; the _Dove_, Capt.
_Cox_; the _Rose_ Pink, formerly a Man of War, Capt. _Thompson_; another
_English_ Ship, Capt. _Chandler_; and three other Vessels. He threatened
all with present Death who resisted, which struck such a Terror to them,
that they yielded themselves up a Prey to the Villains, without firing a
Gun.

The Pyrates being in great Want of Water and fresh Provisions, _Low_ sent
to the Governor of St. _Michael_'s for a Supply, and promised upon that
Condition to release the Ships he had taken, but otherwise to burn them
all; which Demand the Governor thought it not prudent to refuse, but sent
the Provision he required, upon which he released six of the Ships, (after
he had plundered them of what he thought fit,) and the other, _viz._ the
_Rose_ Pink, was made a Pyrate Ship, which _Low_ himself took the Command
of.

The Pyrates took several of the Guns out of the _French_ Ship, and mounted
them aboard the _Rose_, which proved very fit for their Turn, and condemned
the former to the Flames. They took all the Crew out of her, but the Cook,
who, they said, being a greazy Fellow would fry well in the Fire; so the
poor Man was bound to the Main-Mast, and burnt in the Ship, to the no small
Diversion of _Low_ and his _Mirmidons._