_Spriggs_ then stood to the Northward, towards _Burmudas_, or the _Summer
Isles_, and took a Scooner belonging to _Boston_; he took out all the Men
and sunk the Vessel, and had the Impudence to tell the Master, that he
designed to encrease his Company on the Banks of _Newfoundland_, and then
would sail for the Coast of _New-England_ in quest of Captain _Solgard_,
who attack'd and took their Consort _Charles Harris, Spriggs_ being then in
_Low_'s Sloop, who very fairly run for it. The Pyrate ask'd the Master if
he knew Captain _Solgard_, who answering No; he ask'd another the same
Question, and then a third, who said he knew him very well, upon which
_Spriggs_ ordered him to be sweated, which was done in the Manner before
describ'd.

Instead of going to _Newfoundland_ as the Pyrates threat'ned, they came
back to the Islands, and to Windward of St. _Christophers_, on the 4th of
_June_ last, took a Sloop, _Nicholas Trot_ Master, belonging to St.
_Eustatia_, and wanting a little Diversion, they hoisted the Men as high as
the Main and Fore Tops, and let them run down amain, enough to break all
the Bones in their Skins, and after they had pretty well crippled them by
this cruel Usage, and whipp'd them about the Deck, they gave _Trot_ his
Sloop, and let him go, keeping back only 2 of his Men, besides the Plunder
of the Vessel.

Within two or three Days they took a Ship coming from _Rhode-Island_ to St.
_Christophers_, loaden with Provisions and some Horses; the Pyrates mounted
the Horses and rid them about the Deck backwards and forwards a full
Gallop, like Madmen at _New-Market_, cursing, swearing, and hallowing, at
such a Rate, that made the poor Creatures wild, and at length, two or three
of them throwing their Riders, they fell upon the Ship's Crew, and whipp'd,
and cut, and beat them in a barbarous Manner, telling them, it was for
bringing Horses without Boots and Spurs, for want of which they were not
able to ride them.

This is the last Account we have had of Captain _Spriggs_, I shall only add
the two following Relations, and conclude.

A Brigantine belonging to _Bristol_, one _Mr. Rowry_ Master, had been
trading at _Gambia_, in _Africa_, and falling as low as Cape _Mount_, to
finish the slaving of the Vessel, he had, by a Misfortune usual at that
Part of the Coast, his Mate, Surgeon, and two more of his Men,
_Panyarr_'d[*] by the Negroes. The Remainder of his Company, which was not
above 5 or 6 in Number, took this Opportunity, and seiz'd the Vessel in the
Road, making the Master Prisoner.

You will think it prodigious impudent that so small a Number should
undertake to proceed a pyrating, especially when neither of them had
sufficient Skill in Navigation: Yet this they did, leaving those People,
their Ship-Mates abovemention'd, to the Mercy of the barbarous Natives, and
sail'd away down the Coast, making them a black Flag, which they merrily
said, would be as good as 50 Men more, _i. e._ would carry as much Terror;
and that they did not doubt of soon increasing their Crew, to put them in
an enterprizing Capacity; but their vain Projection was soon happily
frustrated, and after this Manner.