Two Days afterwards they chased a Sloop of sixty Ton, and took her two
Leagues off of Cape _Henry_; they were so happy here as to get a Supply of
Liquor to their Victuals, for they brought from her two Hogsheads of Rum,
and as many of Molosses, which, it seems, they had need of, tho' they had
not ready Money to purchase them: What Security they intended to give, I
can't tell, but _Bonnet_ sent eight Men to take Care of the Prize Sloop,
who, perhaps, not caring to make Use of those accustom'd Freedoms, took the
first Opportunity to go off with her, and _Bonnet_ (who was pleased to have
himself called Captain _Thomas_,) saw them no more.

After this, the Major threw off all Restraint, and though he had just
before received his Majesty's Mercy, in the Name of _Stede Bonnet_, he
relaps'd in good Earnest into his old Vocation, by the Name of Captain
_Thomas_, and recommenced a down-right Pyrate, by taking and plundering all
the Vessels he met with: He took off Cape _Henry_, two Ships from
_Virginia_, bound to _Glascow_, out of which they had very little besides
an hundred Weight of Tobacco. The next Day they took a small Sloop bound
from _Virginia_ to _Bermudas_, which supply'd them with twenty Barrels of
Pork, some Bacon, and they gave her in return, two Barrels of Rice, and a
Hogshead of Molossus; out of this Sloop two Men enter'd voluntarily. The
next they took was another _Virginia_ Man, bound to _Glascow_, out of which
they had nothing of Value, save only a few Combs, Pins and Needles, and
gave her instead thereof, a Barrel of Pork, and two Barrels of Bread.

From _Virginia_ they sailed to _Philadelphia_, and in the Latitude of 38
North, they took a Scooner, coming from _North-Carolina_, bound to
_Boston_, they had out of her only two Dozen of Calf-Skins, to make Covers
for Guns, and two of their Hands, and detained her some Days. All this was
but small Game, and seem'd as if they design'd only to make Provision for
their Sloop against they arrived at St. _Thomas_'s; for they hitherto had
dealt favourably with all that were so unhappy as so fall into their Hands;
but those that came after, fared not so well, for in the Latitude of 32,
off of _Delaware_ River, near _Philadelphia_, they took two Snows bound to
_Bristol_, out of whom they got some Money, besides Goods, perhaps to the
Value of 150 Pounds; at the same Time they took a Sloop of sixty Tons bound
from _Philadelphia_ to _Barbadoes_, which after taking some Goods out, they
dismissed along with the Snows.

The 29th Day of _July_, Captain _Thomas_ took a Sloop of 50 Tons, six or
seven Leagues off _Delaware_ Bay, bound from _Philadelphia_ to _Barbadoes,
Thomas Read_ Master, loaden with Provisions, which they kept, and put four
or five of their Hands on Board her. The last Day of _July_, they took
another Sloop of 60 Tons, commanded by _Peter Manwaring_, bound from
_Antegoa_ to _Philadelphia_, which they likewise kept with all the Cargo,
consisting chiefly of Rum, Molosses, Sugar, Cotton, Indigo, and about 25
Pound in Money, valued in all to 500 Pound.