The other _English_ had been a very few Days on Board the Pyrate, only from
_Whydah_ to Cape _Lopez_, and no Capture or Robbery done by them in that
Time. And the _French_ Men were brought with a Design to reconduct their
own Ship (or the _Little Ranger_ in Exchange) to _Whydah_ Road again, and
were used like Prisoners; neither quarter'd nor suffered to carry Arms. So
that the Court immediately acquiesced in, _Acquitting them._

T_HO. Sutton, David Sympson, Christopher Moody, Phil. Bill, R. Hardy,
Hen. Dennis, David Rice, Wm. Williams, R. Harris, Geo. Smith, Ed. Watts,
Jo. Mitchell_ and _James Barrow._

The Evidence against these Prisoners, were _Geret de Haen_, Master of the
_Flushingham_, taken nigh _Axim_, the Beginning of _January_ last.

_Benj. Kreft_ Master, and _James Groet_ Mate of the _Gertruycht_, taken
nigh _Gabone_ in _December_ last, and Mr. _Castel, Wingfield_ and others,
that had been Prisoners with the Pyrates.

The former deposed, that all these Prisoners (excepting _Hardy_) were on
Board at the Robbery and Plunder of their Ships, behaving in a vile
outragious Manner, putting them in bodily Fears, sometimes for the Ship,
and sometimes for themselves; and in particular, _Kreft_ charged it on
_Sutton_, that he had ordered all their Gunner's Stores out; on which that
Prisoner presently interrupted, and said, he was perjured, _That he had not
taken half._ A Reply, I believe, not designed as any sawcy Way of jesting,
but to give their Behaviour an Appearance of more Humanity than the _Dutch_
would allow.

From Mr. _Castel, Wingfield_ and others, they were proved to be
distinguished Men, Men who were consulted as Chiefs in all Enterprizes;
belonged most of them to the House of Lords, (as they call'd it,) and could
carry an Authority over others. The former said, particularly of _Hardy_,
(Quarter-Master of the _Ranger_,) that when the _Diligence_ Sloop was
taken, (whereto he belonged,) none was busier in the Plunder, and was the
very Man who scuttled and sunk that Vessel.

From some of the Prisoners acquitted, it was farther demanded, whether the
Acceptance or Refusal of any Office was not in their own Option? And it was
declared, that every Officer was chose by a Majority of Votes, and might
refuse, if he pleased, since others gladly embraced what brought with it an
additional Share of Prize. _Guilty_

* * *

The Court on the 31st of _March_, remanded the following six before them,
for Sentence, _viz. Dav. Sympson, Wm. Magnes, R. Hardy, Thomas Sutton,
Christopher Moody_, and _Valen. Ashplant._

To whom the President spoke to the following Purpose; _The Crime of Pyracy,
of which all of ye have been justly convicted, is of all other Robberies
the most aggravating and inhumane, in that being removed from the Fears of
Surprize, in remote and distant Parts, ye do in Wantonness of Power often
add Cruelty to Theft._

_Pyrates unmoved at Distress or Poverty, not only spoil and rob, but do it
from Men needy, and who are purchasing their Livlihoods thro' Hazards and
Difficulties, which ought rather to move Compassion; and what is still
worse, do often, by Perswasion or Force, engage the inconsiderate Part of
them, to their own and Families Ruin, removing them from their Wives and
Children, and by that, from the Means that should support them from Misery
and Want._