_Rackam_ stood off towards the Island of _Burmudas_, and took a Ship bound
to _England_ from _Carolina_, and a small Pink from _New-England_, and
brought them to the _Bahama_ Islands, where with the Pitch, Tar, and
Stores, they clean'd again, and refitted their own Vessel; but staying too
long in that Neighbourhood, Captain _Rogers_, who was Governor of
_Providence_, hearing of these Ships being taken, sent out a Sloop well
mann'd and arm'd, which retook both the Prizes, and in the mean while the
Pyrate had the good Fortune to escape.

From hence they sailed to the Back of _Cuba_, where _Rackam_ kept a little
kind of a Family, at which Place, they staid a considerable Time, living
ashore with their Dalilahs, till their Money and Provision were expended,
and then they concluded it Time to look out: They repaired to their Vessel,
and was making ready to put Sea, when a _Guarda del Costa_ came in with a
small _English_ Sloop, which she had taken as an Interloper on the Coast.
The _Spanish_ Guardship attack'd the Pyrate, but _Rackam_ being close in
behind a little Island, she could do but little Execution where she lay,
therefore the _Spaniard_ warps into the Channel that Evening, in order to
make sure of her the next Morning. _Rackam_ finding his Case desperate, and
hardly any Possibility of escaping, resolved to attempt the following
Enterprize: The _Spanish_ Prize lying for better Security close into the
Land, between the little Island and the Main; _Rackam_ takes his Crew into
the Boat, with their Pistols and Cutlashes, rounds the little Island, and
falls aboard their Prize silently in the dead of the Night, without being
discovered, telling the _Spaniards_ that were aboard of her, that if they
spoke a Word, or made the least Noise, they were dead Men, and so became
Master of her; when this was done, he slipt her Cable, and drove out to
Sea: The _Spanish_ Man of War, was so intent upon their expected Prize,
that they minded nothing else, and assoon as Day broke, made a furious Fire
upon the empty Sloop, but it was not long before they were rightly apprized
of the Matter, and cursed themselves for Fools, to be bit out of a good
rich Prize, as she prov'd to be, and to have nothing but an old crazy Hull
in the room of her.

_Rackam_ and his Crew had no Occasion to be displeased at the Exchange,
that enabled them to continue some Time longer in a Way of Life that suited
their depraved Tempers: In _August_ 1720, we find him at Sea again,
scouring the Harbours and Inlets of the North and West Parts of _Jamaica_,
where he took several small Craft, which proved no great Booty to the
Rovers, but they had but few Men, and therefore they were obliged to run at
low Game, till they could encrease their Company.