From _Cochin_ some were for proceeding to _Madagascar_ directly; others
thought it proper to cruize till they got a Store-Ship, and these being the
Majority, they ply'd to the Southward, and after some Days saw a Ship in
Shore, which being to Windward of them, they could not get nigh, till the
Sea Wind, and Night, favouring, they separated, one to the Northward, the
other to the Southward, thinking to enclose her between: But to their
Astonishment, and contrary to Expectation, when Day broke, instead of the
Chace, found themselves very near five Sail of tall Ships, who immediately
making a Signal for the Pyrates to bear down, put them in the utmost
Confusion, particularly _Taylor_'s Ship, because their Consort was at a
Distance from them, (at least three Leagues to the Southward) they stood to
one another, and joined, and then together made the best of their Way from
the Fleet, whom they judged to be commanded by Captain _Mackra_; of whose
Courage having Experience, they were glad to shun any farther Taste of.

In three Hours Chace, none of the Fleet gaining upon them, excepting one
Grab, their dejected Countenances cleared up again, the more, in that a
Calm succeeded for the Remainder of that Day; and in the Night, with the
Land Wind, they ran directly off Shore, and found next Day, to their great
Consolation, that they had lost Sight of all the Fleet.

This Danger escaped, they proposed to spend _Christmas_ (the _Christmas_ of
1720) in Carowzing and Forgetfulness, and kept it for three Days in a
wanton and riotous Way, not only eating, but wasting their fresh Provisions
in so wretched and inconsiderable a Manner, that when they had agreed after
this to proceed to _Mauritius_, they were in that Passage at an Allowance
of a Bottle of Water _per Diem_, and not above two Pounds of Beef, and a
small Quantity of Rice, for ten Men for a Day; so that had it not been for
the leaky Ship, (which once they were about to have quitted, and had done,
but for a Quantity of Arrack and Sugar She had on Board,) they must most of
them have perished.

In this Condition they arrived at the Island of _Mauritius_, about the
Middle of _February_, sheathed and refitted the _Victory_, and on the 5th
of _April_ sailed again, leaving this terrible Inscription on one of the
Walls. _Left this Place the_ 5_th of_ April, _to go to_ Madagascar _for
Limes_, and this, least (like Lawyers and Men of Business) any Visits
should be paid in their Absence: However, they did not sail directly for
_Madagascar_, but the Island _Mascarine_, and luckily as Rogues could wish,
they found at their Arrival on the 8th, a _Portuguese_ Ship at Anchor, of
70 Guns, but most of them thrown overboard, her Masts lost, and so much
disabled by a violent Storm they had met with in the Latitude of 13Â° South,
that she became a Prize to the Pyrates, with very little or no Resistance,
and a glorious one indeed, having the _Conde de Ericeira_, Viceroy of
_Goa_, who made that fruitless Expedition against _Angria_, the _Indian_,
and several other Passengers on Board; who, as they could not be ignorant
of the Treasure she had in, did assert, that in the single Article of
Diamonds, there was to the Value of between three and four Millions of
Dollars.