But to _Theft_ you have added a greater Sin, which is _Murder_. How many
you may have _killed_ of those that resisted you in the committing your
former _Pyracies_, I know not: But this we all know, That besides the
Wounded, you kill'd no less than _eighteen_ Persons out of those that were
sent by lawful Authority to suppress you, and put a Stop to those Rapines
that you daily acted.

And however you may fancy that that was killing Men fairly in open _Fight_,
yet this know, that the Power of the _Sword_ not being committed into your
Hands by any lawful Authority, you were not impowered to use any _Force_,
or _fight_ any one; and therefore those Persons that fell in that Action,
in doing their Duty to their King and Country, were _murdered_, and their
_Blood_ now cries out for _Vengeance_ and _Justice_ against you: For it is
the _Voice of Nature_, confirmed by the _Law_ of God, That _whosoever
sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed_. Gen. 9. 6.

And consider that Death is not the only Punishment due to _Murderers_; for
they are threatened to have _their Part in the Lake which burneth with Fire
and Brimstone, which is the second Death_, Rev. 21. 8. See _Chap._ 22. 15.
Words which carry that Terror with them, that considering your
Circumstances and your Guilt, surely the Sound of them must make you
tremble; _For who can dwell with everlasting Burnings?_ Chap. 33. 14.

As the _Testimony_ of your _Conscience_ must convince you of the great and
many Evils you have committed, by which you have highly offended God, and
provoked most justly his Wrath and Indignation against you, so I suppose I
need not tell you that the only Way of obtaining Pardon and Remission of
your Sins from God, is by a true and unfeigned _Repentance_ and _Faith_ in
Christ, by whose meritorious Death and Passion, you can only hope for
Salvation.