I am not ignorant how acceptable the Behaviour and dying Words of
Malefactors are to the generallity of our Countrymen, and therefore shall
deliver what occurr'd, worthy of Notice, in the Behaviour of these
Criminals.

The first six that were called to Execution, were _Magnes, Moody, Sympson,
Sutton, Ashplant_, and _Hardy_; all of them old Standers and notorious
Offenders: When they were brought out of the Hold, on the Parade, in order
to break off their Fetters, and fit the Halters; none of them, it was
observed, appeared the least dejected, unless _Sutton_, who spoke faint,
but it was rather imputed to a Flux that had seiz'd him two or three Days
before, than Fear. A Gentleman, who was Surgeon of the Ship, was so
charitable at this Time, to offer himself in the room of an Ordinary, and
represented to them, as well as he was able, the Heinousness of their Sin,
and Necessity which lay on them of Repentance; one particular Part of which
ought to be, acknowledging the Justice they had met with. They seem'd
heedless for the present, some calling for Water to drink, and others
applying to the Soldiers for Caps, but when this Gentleman press'd them for
an Answer, they all exclaim'd against the Severity of the Court, and were
so harden'd, as to curse, and wish the same Justice might overtake all the
Members of it, as had been dealt to them. _They were poor Rogues_, they
said, _and so hang'd, while others, no less guilty in another Way,
escaped._

When he endeavoured to compose their Minds, exhorting them to dye in
Charity with all the World, and would have diverted them from such vain
Discourse, by asking them their Country, Age, and the like; some of them
answered, `What was that to him, they suffered the Law, and should give no
Account but to God;´ walking to the Gallows without a Tear, in Token of
Sorrow for their past Offences, or shewing as much Concern as a Man would
express at travelling a bad Road; nay, _Sympson_, at seeing a Woman that he
knew, said, `he had lain with that B--h three times, and now she was come
to see him hang'd.´ And _Hardy_, when his Hands were ty'd behind him,
(which happened from their not being acquainted with the Way of bringing
Malefactors to Execution,) observed, `that he had seen many a Man hang'd,
but this Way of the Hands being ty'd behind them, he was a Stranger to, and
never saw before in his Life.´ I mention these two little Instances, to
shew how stupid and thoughtless they were of their End, and that the same
abandoned and reprobate Temper that had carried them thro' their Rogueries,
abided with them to the last.

_Samuel Fletcher_, another of the Pyrates ordered for Execution, but
reprieved, seem'd to have a quicker Sense of his Condition; for when he saw
those he was allotted with gone to Execution, he sent a Message by the
Provost-Marshal to the Court, to be `inform'd of the Meaning of it, and
humbly desir'd to know whether they design'd him Mercy, or not? If they
did, he stood infinitely oblig'd to them, and thought the whole Service of
his Life an incompetent Return for so great a Favour; but that if he was to
suffer, the sooner the better, _he said_, that he might be out of his
Pain.´