_Bonnet_ stood to the Northward, in a small Vessel, but wanting
Necessaries, and the Weather being bad, he was forced back, and so return'd
with his Canoe, to _Swillivants_ Island, near _Charles-Town_, to fetch
Supplies; but there being some Information sent to the Governor, he sent
for Colonel _Rhet_, and desired him to go in pursuit of _Bonnet_; and
accordingly gave him a Commission for that Purpose: Wherefore the Colonel,
with proper Craft, and some Men, went away that Night for _Swillivant_'s
Island, and, after a very diligent Search, discovered _Bonnet_ and _Hariot_
together; the Colonel's Men fired upon them, and killed _Hariot_ upon the
Spot, and wounded one Negro and an _Indian. Bonnet_ submitted, and
surrender'd himself; and the next Morning, being _November_ the 6th, was
brought by Colonel _Rhet_ to _Charles-Town_, and, by the Governor's
Warrant, was committed into safe Custody, in order for his being brought to
his Tryal.

On the 28th of _October_, 1718, a Court of Vice-Admiralty was held at
_Charles-Town_, in _South-Carolina_, and, by several Adjournments,
continued to _Wednesday_, the 12th of _November_ following, for the Tryal
of the Pyrates taken in a Sloop formerly called _the Revenge_, but
afterwards _the Royal James_, before _Nicholas Trot_, Esq; Judge of the
Vice-Admiralty, and Chief Justice of the said Province of _South-Carolina_,
and other Assistant Judges.

The King's Commission to Judge _Trot_ was read, and a Grand Jury sworn, for
the finding of the several Bills, and a learned Charge given them by the
said Judge, wherein he 1st shewed, _That the Sea was given by God, for the
Use of Men, and is Subject to Dominion and Property, as well as the Land_.

2dly, He particularly remark'd to them, _the Sovereignty of the King of_
England _over the_ British _Seas_.

3dly, He observed, _that as Commerce and Navigation could not be carried on
without Laws; so there have been always particular Laws, for the better
ordering and regulating marine Affairs_; with an historical Account or
those Laws, and Origine.

4thly, He proceeded to shew, _that there have been particular Courts and
Judges appointed; to whose Jurisdiction maritime Causes do belong, and that
in Matters both Civil and Criminal_.

And then 5thly, He particularly shewed them, _the Constitution and
Jurisdiction of that Court of Admiralty Sessions_.

And lastly, _the Crimes cognizable therein_; and particularly enlarged
_upon the Crime of Pyracy_, which was then brought before them.

The Indictments being found, a petit Jury was sworn, and the following
Persons arraigned and tried.

* * *

_Stede Bonnet_, alias _Edwards_, alias _Thomas_, late of _Barbadoes_,
Mariner.

_Robert Tucker_, late of the Island of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_Edward Robinson_, late of _New-Castle_ upon _Tine_, Mariner.

_Neal Paterson_, late of _Aberdeen_, Mariner.

_William Scot_, late of _Aberdeen_, Mariner.

_William Eddy_, alias _Neddy_, late of _Aberdeen_, Mariner.

_Alexander Annand_, late of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_George Rose_, late of _Glascow_, Mariner.

_George Dunkin_, late of _Glascow_, Mariner.

*_Thomas Nicholas_, late of _London_, Mariner.

_John Ridge_, late of _London_, Mariner.

_Matthew King_, late of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_Daniel Perry_, late of _Guernsey_, Mariner.

_Henry Virgin_, late of _Bristol_, Mariner.

_James Robbins_, alias _Rattle_, late of _London_, Mariner.

_James Mullet_, alias _Millet_, late of _London_, Mariner.

_Thomas Price_, late of _Bristol_, Mariner.

_James Wilson_, late of _Dublin_, Mariner.

_John Lopez_, late of _Oporto_, Mariner.

_Zachariah Long_, late of the Province of _Holland_, Mariner.

_Job Bayly_, late of _London_, Mariner.

_John-William Smith_, late of _Charles-Town, Carolina_, Mariner.

_Thomas Carman_, late of _Maidstone_ in _Kent_, Mariner.

_John Thomas_, late of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_William Morrison_, late of _Jamaica_, Mariner.

_Samuel Booth_, late of _Charles-Town_, Mariner.