Notwithstanding the successful Adventures of this Crew, yet it was with
great Difficulty they could be kept together, under any kind of Regulation;
for being almost always mad or drunk, their Behaviour produced infinite
Disorders, every Man being in his own Imagination a Captain, a Prince, or a
King. When _Roberts_ saw there was no managing of such a Company of wild
ungovernable Brutes, by gentle means, nor to keep them from drinking to
excess, the Cause of all their Disturbances, he put on a rougher
Deportment, and a more magesterial Carriage towards them, correcting whom
he thought fit; and if any seemed to resent his Usage, he told them, _they
might go ashore and take Satisfaction of him, if they thought fit, at Sword
and Pistol, for he neither valu'd or fear'd any of them._

About 400 Leagues from the Coast of _Africa_, the Brigantine who had
hitherto lived with them, in all amicable Correspondence, thought fit to
take the Opportunity of a dark Night, and leave the Commadore, which leads
me back to the Relation of an Accident that happened at one of the Islands
of the _West-Indies_, where they water'd before they undertook this Voyage,
which had like to have thrown their Government (such as it was) off the
Hinges, and was partly the Occasion of the Separation: The Story is as
follows.

Captain _Roberts_ having been insulted by one of the drunken Crew, (whose
Name I have forgot,) he, in the Heat of his Passion killed the Fellow on
the Spot, which was resented by a great many others, put particularly one
_Jones_, a brisk active young Man, who died lately in the _Marshalsea_, and
was his Mess-Mate. This _Jones_ was at that Time ashore a watering the
Ship, but as soon as he came on Board, was told that Captain _Roberts_ had
killed his Comrade; upon which he cursed _Roberts_, and said, he ought to
be served so himself. _Roberts_ hearing _Jones_'s Invective, ran to him
with a Sword, and ran him into the Body; who, notwithstanding his Wound,
seized the Captain, threw him over a Gun, and beat him handsomely. This
Adventure put the whole Company in an Uproar, and some taking Part with the
Captain, and others against him, there had like to have ensued a general
Battle with one another, like my Lord _Thomont_'s Cocks; however, the
Tumult was at length appeas'd by the Mediation of the Quarter-Master; and
as the Majority of the Company were of Opinion that the Dignity of the
Captain, ought to be supported on Board; that it was a Post of Honour, and
therefore the Person whom they thought fit to confer it on, should not be
violated by any single Member; wherefore they sentenced _Jones_ to undergo
two Lashes from every one of the Company, for his Misdemeanour, which was
executed upon him as soon as he was well of his Wound.