_Forasmuch as in open Contempt of the Laws of your Country, ye have all of
you been wickedly united, and articled together, for the Annoyance and
Disturbance of his Majesty's trading Subjects by Sea. And have in
Conformity to the most evil and mischievous Intentions, been twice down the
Coast of_ Africa, _with two Ships; once in the Beginning of_ August, _and a
second Time, in_ January _last, sinking, burning, or robbing such Ships,
and Vessels, as then happened in your Way._

_Particularly, ye stand charged at the Instance, and Information of
Captain_ Chaloner Ogle, _as Traytors and Pyrates, for the unlawful
Opposition ye made to his Majesty's Ship, the_ Swallow, _under his
Command._

_For that on the_ 5_th of_ February _last past, upon Sight of the aforesaid
King's Ship, ye did immediately weigh Anchor from under Cape_ Lopez, _on
the Southern Coast of_ Africa, _in a_ French _built Ship of_ 32 _Guns,
called the_ Ranger, _and did pursue and chase the aforesaid King's Ship,
with such Dispatch and Precipitancy, as declared ye common Robbers and
Pyrates._

_That about Ten of the Clock the same Morning, drawing within Gun-shot of
his Majesty's aforesaid Ship the_ Swallow, _ye hoisted a pyratical black
Flag, and fired several chace Guns, to deter, as much as ye were able, his
Majesty's Servants from their Duty._

_That an Hour after this, being very nigh to the aforesaid King's Ship, ye
did audaciously continue in a hostile Defence and Assault, for about two
Hours more, in open Violation of the Laws, and in Defiance to the King's
Colours and Commission._

_And lastly, that in the acting, and compassing of all this, ye were all,
and every one of you, in a wicked Combination, voluntarily to exert, and
actually did, in your several Stations, use your utmost Endeavours to
distress the said King's Ship, and murder his Majesty's good Subjects._

To which they severally pleaded, _Not Guilty._

* * *

Then the Court called for the Officers of the _Swallow_, Mr. _Isaac Sun_,
Lieutenant, _Ralph Baldrick_, Boatswain, _Daniel Maclauglin_, Mate,
desiring them to view the Prisoners, whether they knew them? And to give an
Account in what Manner they had attack'd and fought the King's Ship; and
they agreed as follows.

That they had viewed all the Prisoners, as they stood now before the Court,
and were assured they were the same taken out of one, or other, of the
Pyrate Ships, _Royal Fortune_, or _Ranger_; but verily believe them to be
taken out of the _Ranger._

That they did in the King's Ship, at break of Day, on _Monday_, the 5th of
_February_, 1721-2, discover three Ships at Anchor, under Cape _Lopez_, on
the Southern Coast of _Africa_; the Cape bearing then W. S. W. about three
Leagues, and perceiving one of them to have a Pendant flying, and having
heard their Morning-Gun before, they immediately suspected them to be
_Roberts_ the Pyrate, his consort, and a _French_ Ship, they knew had been
lately carried out of _Whydah_ Road.

The King's Ship was obliged to hawl off N. W. and W. N. W. to avoid a Sand,
called, the _French Man's Bank_, the Wind then at S. S. E. and found in
half an Hour's time, one of the three had got under Sail from the Careen,
and was bending her Sails, in a Chace towards them. To encourage this
Rashness and Precipitancy, they kept away before the Wind, (as though
afraid,) but with their Tacks on Board, their Main-Yard braced, and making,
at the same Time, very bad Steerage.