_No Man to talk of breaking up their Way of Living, till each had shared a_
1000 _l. If in order to this, any Man should lose a Limb, or become a
Cripple in their Service, he was to have_ 800 _Dollars, out of the publick
Stock, and for lesser Hurts, proportionably._

X.

_The Captain and Quarter-Master to receive two Shares of a Prize; the
Master, Boatswain, and Gunner, one Share and a half, and other Officers,
one and a Quarter._

XI.

_The Musicians to have Rest on the Sabbath Day, but the other six Days and
Nights, none without special Favour._

These, we are assured, were some of _Roberts_'s Articles, but as they had
taken Care to throw over-board the Original they had sign'd and sworn to,
there is a great deal of Room to suspect, the remainder contained something
too horrid to be disclosed to any, except such as were willing to be
Sharers in the Iniquity of them; let them be what they will, they were
together the Test of all new Comers, who were initiated by an Oath taken on
a Bible, reserv'd for that Purpose only, and were subscrib'd to in Presence
of the worshipful Mr. _Roberts._ And in Case any Doubt should arise
concerning the Construction of these Laws, and it should remain a Dispute
whether the Party had infring'd them or no, a Jury is appointed to explain
them, and bring in a Verdict upon the Case in Doubt.

Since we are now speaking of the Laws of this Company, I shall go on, and,
in as brief a Manner as I can, relate the principal Customs, and
Government, of this roguish Common-Wealth; which are pretty near the same
with all Pyrates.

For the Punishment of small Offences, which are not provided for by the
Articles, and which are not of Consequence enough to be left to a Jury,
there is a principal Officer among the Pyrates, called the Quarter-Master,
of the Mens own chusing, who claims all Authority this Way, (excepting in
Time of Battle:) If they disobey his Command, are quarrelsome and mutinous
with one another, misuse Prisoners, plunder beyond his Order, and in
particular, if they be negligent of their Arms, which he musters at
Discretion, he punishes at his own Arbitrement, with drubbing or whipping,
which no one else dare do without incurring the Lash from all the Ships
Company: In short, this Officer is Trustee for the whole, is the first on
Board any Prize, separating for the Company's Use, what he pleases, and
returning what he thinks fit to the Owners, excepting Gold and Silver,
which they have voted not returnable.