That the _Dutch_, on Relinquishing, should keep all the Places they had
conquered in _India_ from _Portugal_. That they should pay the States
800000 _l._ and permit them still the Liberty of Trade to _Africa_ and
_Brasil_, on the same Custom and Duties with the King of _Portugal_'s
Subjects. But since that Time, new Stipulations and Treaties have been
made; wherein the _Dutch_, who have been totally excluded the _Brasil_
Trade, have, in lieu thereof, a Composition of 10 _per Cent_. for the
Liberty of trading to _Africa_; and this is always left by every
_Portuguese_ Ship (before she begins her Slaving) with the _Dutch_ General
of the _Gold-Coast_, at _Des Minas_.

There are only three principal Towns of Trade on the _Brasil_ Coast, St.
_Salvadore_, St. _Sebastian_, and _Pernambuca_.

St. _Salvadore_ in the _Bahia los todos Santos_, is an Archbishoprick and
Seat of the Viceroy, the chief Port of Trade for Importation, where most of
the Gold from the Mines is lodged, and whence the Fleets for _Europe_
generally depart. The Seas about it abound with Whale-Fish, which in the
Season they catch in great Numbers; the Flesh is salted up generally to be
the Victualling of their Slave-Ships, and the Train reserved for
Exportation, at 30 and 35 Millrays a Pipe.

_Rio Janeiro (_the Town St. _Sebastian)_ is the Southernmost of the
_Portuguese_, the worst provided of Necessaries, but commodious for a
Settlement, because nigh the Mine, and convenient to supervise the Slaves,
who, as I have been told, do usually allow their Master a Dollar _per
Diem_, and have the Overplus of their Work (if any) to themselves.

The Gold from hence is esteemed the best, (for being of a copperish
Colour,) and they have a Mint to run it into Coin, both here and at
_Bahia_; the Moidors of either having the initial Letters of each Place
upon them.

_Pernambuca_ (tho' mention'd last) is the second in Dignity, a large and
populous Town, and has its rise from the Ruins of _Olinda_, (or the
handsome,) a City of a far pleasanter Situation, six Miles up the River,
but not so commodious for Traffick and Commerce. Just above the Town the
River divides it self into two Branches, not running directly into the Sea,
but to the Southward; and in the Nook of the Island made by that Division,
stands the Governor's House, a square plain Building of Prince _Maurice_'s,
with two Towers, on which are only this Date inscribed, _Anno_ 1641. The
Avenues to it are every way pleasant, thro' Visto's of tall Coco-Nut Trees.

Over each Branch of the River is a Bridge; that leading to the Country is
all of Timber, but the other to the Town (of twenty six or twenty eight
Arches) is half of Stone, made by the _Dutch_, who in their Time had little
Shops and gaming Houses on each Side for Recreation.