The same Day he sail'd with his three Ships, making his Way down the Coast
towards _Princes_, a _Portuguese_ Colony: But, before we proceed any
farther in _Davis_'s Story, we shall give our Reader an Account of the
_Portuguese_ Settlements on this Coast, with other curious Remarks, as they
were communicated to me by an ingenious Gentleman, lately arrived from
those Parts.

_A Description of the Islands of_ St. THOME, DEL PRINCIPE, _and_
ANNOBONO.

AS the _Portuguese_ were the great Improvers of Navigation, and the
first _Europeans_ who traded too and settled on the Coasts of _Africa_,
even round to _India_, and made those Discoveries, which now turn so much
to the Advantage of other Nations, it may not be amiss, previously to a
Description of those Islands, to hint on that wonderful Property of the
Loadstone, that a little before had been found out, and enabled them to
pursue such new and daring Navigations.

The attractive Power of the Loadstone, was universally known with the
Ancients, as may be believed by its being a native Fossil of the
_Grecians_, (_Magnes a Magnesia_) but its directive, or polar Virtue, has
only been known to us within this 350 Years, and said to be found out by
_John Goia_ of _Malphi_, in the Kingdom of _Naples, Prima dedit nautis usum
magnetis Amalphi_; tho' others think, and assure us, it was transported by
_Paulus Venetus_ from _China_ to _Italy_, like the other famous Arts of
modern Use with us, PRINTING and _the Use of_ GUNS.

The other Properties of Improvements of the Magnet, _viz._ Variation, or
its Defluction from an exact N. or S. Line, Variation of that Variation,
and its Inclination, were the Inventions of _Sebastian Cabot_, Mr.
_Gellibrand_, and Mr. _Norman_; the Inclination of the Needle, or that
Property whereby it keeps an Elevation above the Horizon, in all Places but
under the Equator, (where its Parallel) is as surprizing a Ph√¶nomenon as
any, and was the Discovery of our Countrymen; and could it be found
regular, I imagine would very much help towards the Discovery of Longitude,
at least would point out better Methods than hitherto known, when Ships
drew nigh Land, which would answer as useful an End.

Before the Verticity and Use of the Compass, the _Portuguese_ Navigations
had extended no farther than Cape _Non_, (it was their _ne plus ultra_,)
and therefore so called; distress of Weather, indeed, had drove some
Coasters to _Porto Santo_, and _Madera_, before any certain Method of
steering was invented; but after the Needle was seen thus inspired,
Navigation every Year improved under the great Incouragements of _Henry,
Alphonsus_, and _John_ II. Kings of _Portugal_, in Part of the 14th and in
the 15th Century.

King _Alphonsus_ was not so much at leasure as his Predecessor, to pursue
these Discoveries, but having seen the Advantages accrued to _Portugal_ by
them, and that the Pope had confirmed the perpetual Donation of all they
should discover between Cape _Bajadore_ and _India_, inclusively, he
resolved not to neglect the proper Assistance, and farmed the Profits that
did or might ensue to one _Bernard Gomez_, a Citizen of _Lisbon_, who was
every Voyage obliged to discover 100 Leagues, still farther on: And about
the Year 1470 made these Islands, the only Places (of all the considerable
and large Colonies they had in _Africa_,) that do now remain to that Crown.