_I presume we need make no Apology for giving the Name of a History to the
following Sheets, though they contain nothing but the Actions of a Parcel
of Robbers. It is Bravery and Stratagem in War which make Actions worthy of
Record; in which Sense the Adventures, here related will be thought
deserving that Name. _Plutarch_ is very circumstantial in relating the
Actions of _Spartacus_, the Slave, and makes the Conquest of him, one of
the greatest Glories of _Marcus Crassus_; and it is probable, if this Slave
had liv'd a little longer, _Plutarch_ would have given us his Life at
large. _Rome_, the Misstress of the World, was no more at first than a
Refuge for Thieves and Outlaws; and if the Progress of our Pyrates had been
equal to their Beginning; had they all united, and settled in some of those
Islands, they might, by this Time, have been honoured with the Name of a
Commonwealth, and no Power in those Parts of the World could have been able
to dispute it with them._

_If we have seem'd to glance, with some Freedom, at the Behaviour of some
Governors of Provinces abroad, it has been with Caution; and, perhaps, we
have, not declar'd as much as we knew: However, we hope those Gentlemen in
the same Station, who have never given Occasion for the like Censure, will
take no Offence, tho' the Word Governor is sometimes made use of._

P. S. _It will be necessary to add a Word or two to this Preface, in order
to inform the Reader, that there are several material Additions made to
this second Impression, which swelling the Book in Bulk, must of
Consequence add a small Matter to its Price._

_The first Impression having been received with so much Success by the
Publick, occasioned a very earnest Demand for a second: In the mean Time,
several Persons who had been taken by the Pyrates, as well as others who
had been concerned in taking of them, have been so kind to communicate
several Facts and Circumstances to us, which had escaped us in the first
Impression. This occasioned some Delay, therefore if we have not brought it
out, as soon as wish'd, it was to render it the more compleat._

_We shall not enter into a Detail of all the new Matter inserted here, but
the Description of the Islands _St. Thome_, _&c._ and that of _Brasil_ are
not to be passed by, without a little Notice. It must be observed, that our
speculative Mathematicians and Geographers, who are, no doubt, Men of the
greatest Learning, seldom travel farther than their Closets for their
Knowledge, _&c._ are therefore unqualified to give us a good Description of
Countries: It is for this Reason that all our Maps and Atlasses are so
monstrously faulty, for these Gentlemen are obliged to take their Accounts
from the Reports of illiterate Men._

_It must be noted also, that when the Masters of Ships make Discoveries
this Way, they are not fond of communicating them; a Man's knowing this or
that Coast, better than others, recommends him in his Business, and makes
him more useful, and he'll no more discover it than a Tradesman will the
Mystery of his Trade._