_H. Glasby._ Every Man is commonly called by List, and insists, in his
Turn, to go on Board of a Prize, because they then are allowed a Shift of
Cloaths, (the best they can find) over and above the Dividend from the
Robbery, and this they are so far from being compelled to, that it often
becomes the Occasion of Contest and Quarrel amongst them: But in the
present, or such like Cases, where there appears a Prospect of Trouble, the
Lazy and Timerous are often willing to decline this Turn, and yield to
their Betters, who thereby establish a greater Credit.

The Prisoner, and the rest of those Men who went from the _Fortune_ on
Board the _Ranger_, to assist in this Expedition, were Voluntiers, and the
trustiest Men among us.

_President._ Were there no Jealousies of the _Ranger_'s leaving you in this
Chace, or at any other Time, in order to surrender?

_H. Glasby._ Most of the _Ranger_'s Crew were fresh Men, Men who had been
enter'd only since their being on the Coast of _Guiney_, and therefore had
not so liberal a Share in fresh Provisions, or Wine, as the _Fortune_'s
People, who thought they had born the Burthen and Heat of the Day, which
had given Occasion indeed to some Grumblings and Whispers, as tho' they
would take an Opportunity to leave us, but we never supposed (if they did)
it would be with any other Design then setting up for themselves, they
having (many of them) behaved with greater Severity than the old Standers.

The Prisoner appeared undaunted, and rather solicitous, about resting his
Stump, than giving any Answer to the Court, or making any Defence for
himself, till called upon; then he related in a careless, or rather
hopeless Manner, the Circumstances of his first Entrance, being forced, he
said, out of the _Blessing_ of _Lemmington_, at _Newfoundland_, about 12
Months past; this, he is sure, most of the old Pyrates knew, and that he
was for some Time as sick of the Change as any Man; but Custom and ill
Company had altered him, owning very frankly, that he was at the Attack,
and taking of the _King Solomon_, that he did cut her Cable, and that none
were forced on those Occasions.

As to the last Expedition in the _Ranger_, he confesses he went on Board of
her, but that it was by _Robert_'s Order; and in the Chace loaded one Gun,
to bring her to, but when he saw it was a Bite, he declared to his
Comrades, that it was not worth while to resist, forbore firing, and
assisted to reeve the Braces, in order, if they could, to get away, in
which sort of Service he was busied, when a Shot from the Man of War took
off his Leg: And being asked, that supposing the Chace had proved a
_Portuguese_? Why then, says he, I dont know what I might have done,
intimating withal, that every Body then would have been ready enough at
plundering. _Guilty._

_Peter Scudamore._