But it is probable, that had these Pyrates receiv'd sufficient Notice of
the _Roman_ Preparation against them, so as they might have had Time to
draw their scattered Strength into a Body, to have met _Pompey_ by Sea, the
Advantage appeared greatly on their Side, in Numbers of Shipping, and of
Men; nor did they want Courage, as may be seen by their coming out of the
Port of _Coracesium_, to give the _Romans_ Battle, with a Force much
inferior to their's; I say, had they overthrown _Pompey_, it is likely they
would have made greater Attempts, and _Rome_, which had conquer'd the whole
World, might have been subdued by a Parcel of Pyrates.

This is a Proof how dangerous it is to Governments to be negligent, and not
take an early Care in suppressing these Sea Banditti, before they gather
Strength.

The Truth of this Maxim may be better exemplified in the History of
_Barbarouse_, a Native in the City of _Mitylene_, in the Island of
_Lesbos_, in the _Egean_ Sea; a Fellow of ordinary Birth, who being bred to
the Sea, first set out from thence upon the pyrating Account with only one
small Vessel, but by the Prizes he took, he gain'd immense Riches, so that
getting a great Number of large Ships, all the bold and dissolute Fellows
of those Islands flock'd to him, and listed in his Service, for the Hopes
of Booty; so that his Strength was increased to a formidable Fleet: With
these he perform'd such bold and adventurous Actions, that he became the
Terror of the Seas. About this Time it happened that _Selim Eutemi_, King
of _Algiers_, having refused to pay the accustomed Tribute to the
_Spaniards_, was apprehensive of an Invasion from thence; wherefore he
treated with _Barbarouse_, upon the Foot of an Ally, to come and assist
him, and deliver him from paying this Tribute; _Barbarouse_ readily came
into it, and sailing to _Algiers_ with a great Fleet, he put part of his
Men on Shore, and having laid a Plot to surprize the City, he effected it
with great Success, and murder'd _Selim_ in a Bath; soon after which, he
was himself crowned King of _Algiers_; after this he made War upon
_Abdilabde_, King of _Tunis_, and overthrew him in Battle; he extended his
Conquests on all Sides; and thus from a Thief became a mighty King: and
tho' he was at last kill'd in Battle, yet he had so well established
himself upon that Throne, that, dying without Issue, he left the
Inheritance of the Kingdom to his Brother, another Pyrate.

* * *

I come now to speak of the Pyrates infesting the _West-Indies_, where they
are more numerous than in any other Parts of the World, on several Reasons:

_First_, Because there are so many uninhabited little Islands and Keys,
with Harbours convenient and secure for cleaning their Vessels, and
abounding with what they often want, Provision; I mean Water, Sea-Fowl,
Turtle, Shell, and other Fish; where, if they carry in but strong Liquor,
they indulge a Time, and become ready for new Expeditions before any
Intelligence can reach to hurt them.