There was a Clergyman on Board the _Onslow_, sent from _England_, to be
Chaplain of _Cape-Corso-Castle_, some of the Pyrates were for keeping him,
alledging merrily, that their Ship wanted a Chaplain; accordingly they
offered him a Share, to take on with them, promising, he should do nothing
for his Money, but make Punch, and say Prayers; yet, however brutish they
might be in other Things, they bore so great a Respect to his Order, that
they resolved not to force him against his Inclinations; and the Parson
having no Relish for this sort of Life, excused himself from accepting the
Honour they designed him; they were satisfied, and generous enough to
deliver him back every Thing he owned to be his: The Parson laid hold of
this favourable Disposition of the Pyrates, and laid Claim to several
Things belonging to others, which were also given up, to his great
Satisfaction; in fine, they kept nothing which belonged to the Church,
except three Prayer-Books, and a Bottle-Screw.

The Pyrates kept the _Onslow_ for their own Use, and gave Captain _Gee_ the
_French_ Ship, and then fell to making such Alterations as might fit her
for a Sea-Rover, pulling down her Bulk-Heads, and making her flush, so that
she became, in all Respects, as compleat a Ship for their Purpose, as any
they could have found; they continued to her the Name of the _Royal
Fortune_, and mounted her with 40 Guns.

She and the _Ranger_ proceeded (as I said before,) to _Jaquin_, and from
thence to _Old Calabar_, where they arrived about _October_, in order to
clean their Ships, a Place the most suitable along the whole Coast, for
there is a Bar with not above 15 Foot Water upon it, and the Channel
intricate, so that had the Men of War been sure of their being harbour'd
here, they might still have bid Defiance to their Strength, for the Depth
of Water at the Bar, as well as the want of a Pilot, was a sufficient
Security to the Rovers, and invincible Impediments to them. Here therefore
they sat easy, and divided the Fruits of their dishonest Instustry, _and
drank and drove Care away._ The Pilot who brought them into this Harbour,
was Captain _L--e_, who for this, and other Services, was extreamly well
paid, according to the Journal of their own Accounts, which do not run in
the ordinary and common way, of _Debtor, contra Creditor_, but much more
concise, lumping it to their Friends, and so carrying the Debt in their
Heads, against the next honest Trader they meet. They took at _Calabar_,
Captain _Loane_, and two or three _Bristol_ Ships, the Particulars of all
which would be an unnecessary Prolixity, therefore I come now to give an
Account of the Usage they received from the Natives of this Place. The
_Calabar_ Negroes did not prove so civil as they expected, for they refused
to have any Commerce or Trade with them, when they understood they were
Pyrates: An Indication that these poor Creatures, in the narrow
Circumstances they were in, and without the Light of the Gospel, or the
Advantage of an Education, have, notwithstanding, such a moral innate
Honesty, as would upbraid and shame the most knowing Christian: But this
did but exasperate these lawless Fellows, and so a Party of 40 Men were
detach'd to force a Correspondence, or drive the Negroes to Extremities;
and they accordingly landed under the Fire of their own Cannon. The Negroes
drew up in a Body of 2000 Men, as if they intended to dispute the Matter
with them, and staid till the Pyrates advanced within Pistol-shot; but
finding the Loss of two or three, made no Impression on the rest, the
Negroes thought fit to retreat, which they did, with some Loss: The Pyrates
set Fire to the Town, and then return'd to their Ships. This terrified the
Natives, and put an entire stop to all the Intercourse between them; so
that they could get no Supplies, which obliged them, as soon as they had
finished the cleaning and triming of their Ships, to lose no Time, but went
for Cape _Lopez_, and watered, and at _Anna-Bona_ took aboard a Stock of
fresh Provisions, and then sailed for the Coast again.