_This Act shall not prejudice any Person, or Persons_, (_urged by
Necessity_) _for taking Victuals, Cables, Ropes, Anchors or Sails, out of
another Ship that may spare them, so as they either pay ready Money, or
Money worth for them, or give a Bill for the Payment thereof; if on this
Side the Straits of_ Gibraltar, _within four Months; if beyond, within
twelve Months._

_When any such Commission shall be sent to any Place within the
Jurisdiction of the_ Cinque-Ports, _it shall be directed to the Warden of
the said Ports, or his Deputy with three or four other Persons, as the Lord
Chancellor shall Name; and the Inquisition or Tryal of such Offences,
there, shall be made and had, by the Inhabitants of the said Ports, and
Members of the same._

_By_ 11 _and_ 12 W. 3. c. 7. _If any natural born Subjects or Denizons of_
England, _commit Pyracy, or any Act of Hostility, against his Majesty's
Subjects at Sea, under Colour of a Commission or Authority, from any
foreign Prince or State, or Person whatsoever, such Offenders shall be
adjudged Pyrates._

_If any Commander or Master of a Ship, or Seaman or Mariner, give up his
Ship_, &c. _to Pyrates, or combine to yield up, or run away with any Ship,
or lay violent Hand on his Commander, or endeavour to make a Revolt in the
Ship, he shall be adjudged a Pyrate._

_All Persons who after the_ 29_th of_ September 1720, _shall set forth any
Pyrate (or be aiding and assisting to any such Pyrate_,) _committing Pyracy
on Land or Sea, or shall conceal such Pyrates, or receive any Vessel or
Goods pyratically taken, shall be adjudged accessary to such Pyracy, and
suffer as Principals._

_By_ 4 G. c. 11. Sect. 7. _All Persons who have committed, or shall commit
any Offences, for which they ought to be adjudged Pyrates, by the Act_ 11
_and_ 12 W. 3. c. 7. _may be tried for every such Offence, in such Manner
as by the Act_ 28 H. 8. c. 15. _is directed for the Tryal of Pyrates; and
shall not have the Benefit of Clergy._

Sect. 8. _This Act shall not extend to Persons convicted or attainted in_
Scotland.

Sect. 9. _This Act shall extend to his Majesty's Dominions in_ America,
_and be taken as a publick Act._

FINIS.