It was now thought necessary to look out for a Place to clean their Sloop
in, and prepare for new Adventures: Accordingly the Island of _Blanco_ was
pitched upon for that Purpose, which lies in the Latitude of 11° 50 m. N.
about 30 Leagues from the Main of the _Spanish America_, between the
Islands of _Margarita_ and _Rocas_, and not far from _Tortuga._ It is a low
even Island, but healthy and dry, uninhabited, and about two Leagues in
Circumference, with Plenty of Lignum Vitæ Trees thereon, growing in Spots,
with shrubby Bushes of other Wood about them. There are, besides Turtle,
great Numbers of Guanoes, which is an amphibious Creature like a Lizard,
but much larger, the Body of it being as big as a Man's Leg; they are very
good to eat, and are much used by the Pyrates that come here: They are of
divers Colours, but such as live upon dry Ground, as here at _Blanco_, are
commonly yellow. On the N. W. End of this Island, there is a small Cove or
sandy Bay, all round the rest of the Island is deep Water, and steep close
to the Island. Here _Lowther_ resorted to, the Beginning of _October_ last,
unrigged his Sloop, sent his Guns, Sails, Rigging, _&c._ ashore, and put
his Vessel upon the Careen. The _Eagle_ Sloop of _Barbadoes_, belonging to
the _South-Sea_ Company, with 35 Hands, commanded by _Walter Moore_, coming
near this Island, in her Voyage to _Comena_, on the _Spanish_ Continent,
saw the said Sloop just careen'd, with her Guns out, and Sails unbent,
which she supposed to be a Pyrate, because it was a Place where Traders did
not commonly use, so took the Advantage of attacking her, as she was then
unprepared; the _Eagle_ having fired a Gun to oblige her to shew her
Colours, the Pyrate hoisted the St. _George_'s Flag at their Topmast-Head,
as it were to bid Defiance to her; but when they found _Moore_ and his Crew
resolved to board them in good earnest, the Pyrates cut their Cable and
hawled their Stern on Shore, which obliged the _Eagle_ to come to an Anchor
a-thwart their Hawse, where she engaged them till they called for Quarter
and struck; at which Time _Lowther_ and twelve of the Crew made their
Escape out of the Cabin Window. The Master of the _Eagle_ got the Pyrate
Sloop off, secured her, and went ashore with 25 Hands, in Pursuit of
_Lowther_ and his Gang; but after five Day's search, they could find but
five of them, which they brought aboard, and then proceeded with the Sloop
and Pyrates to _Comena_ aforesaid, where they soon arrived.

The _Spanish_ Governor being informed of this brave Action, condemned the
Sloop to the Captors, and sent a small Sloop with 23 Hands to scower the
Bushes and other Places of the Island of _Blanco_, for the Pyrates that
remained there, and took four more, with seven small Arms, leaving behind
them Captain _Lowther_, three Men, and a little Boy, which they could not
take; the above four the _Spaniards_ try'd and condemned to Slavery for
Life; three to the Gallies, and the other to the Castle of _Arraria._