_Judge._ D'ye hear how the Scoundrel prates?--What have we to do with
Reason?--I'd have you to know, Raskal, we don't sit here to hear
Reason;--we go according to Law.--Is our Dinner ready?

_Attor. Gen._ Yes, my Lord.

_Judge._ Then heark'ee, you Raskal at the Bar; hear me, Sirrah, hear
me.--You must suffer, for three Reasons; first, because it is not fit I
should sit here as Judge, and no Body be hang'd.--Secondly, you must be
hang'd, because you have a damn'd hanging Look:--And thirdly, you must be
hang'd, because I am hungry; for know, Sirrah, that 'tis a Custom, that
whenever the Judge's Dinner is ready before the Tryal is over, the Prisoner
is to be hang'd of Course.--There's Law for you, ye Dog.--So take him away
Goaler.

* * *

This is the Tryal just as it was related to me; the Design of my setting it
down, is only to shew how these Fellows can jest upon Things, the Fear and
Dread of which, should make them tremble.

The beginning of _August_ 1722, the Pyrates made ready the Brigantine, and
came out to Sea, and beating up to Windward, lay in the Track for their
Correspondant in her Voyage to _Jamaica_, and spoke with her; but finding
nothing was done in _England_ in their Favour, as 'twas expected, they
return'd to their Consorts at the Island with the ill News, and found
themselves under a Necessity, as they fancied, to continue that abominable
Course of Life they had lately practis'd; in order thereto, they sail'd
with the Ship and Brigantine to the Southward, and the next Night, by
intolerable Neglect, they run the _Morning Star_ upon the _Grand Caimanes_,
and wreck'd her; the Brigantine seeing the Fate of her Consort, hall'd off
in Time, and so weather'd the Island. The next Day Captain _Anstis_ put in,
and found that all, or the greatest part of the Crew, were safe ashore,
whereupon she came to an Anchor, in order to fetch them off; and having
brought _Fenn_ the Captain, _Philips_ the Carpenter, and a few others
aboard, two Men of War came down upon them, _viz._ the _Hector_ and
_Adventure_, so that the Brigantine had but just Time to cut their Cable,
and get to Sea, with one of the Men of War after her, keeping within
Gun-shot for several Hours. _Anstis_ and his Crew were now under the
greatest Consternation imaginable, finding the Gale freshen, and the Man of
War gaining Ground upon them, so that, in all Probability, they must have
been Prisoners in two Hours more; but it pleased God to give them a little
longer Time, the Wind dying away, the Pyrates got out their Oars, and row'd
for their Lives, and thereby got clear of their Enemy.

The _Hector_ landed her Men upon the Island, and took 40 of the _Morning
Star_'s Crew, without any Resistance made by them; but on the contrary,
alledging, they were forc'd Men, and that they were glad of this
Opportunity to escape from the Pyrates; the rest hid themselves in the
Woods, and could not be found. _George Bradley_ the Master, and three more,
surrender'd afterwards to a _Burmudas_ Sloop, and were carried to that
Island.

The Brigantine, after her Escape, sail'd to a small Island near the Bay of
_Honduras_, to clean and refit, and, in her Way thither, took a _Rhode
Island_ Sloop, Captain _Durfey_, Commander, and two or three other Vessels,
which they destroy'd, but brought all the Hands aboard their own.