_Sierraleon_ River disgorges with a large Mouth, the Starboard-Side of
which, draughts into little Bays, safe and convenient for cleaning and
watering; what still made it preferable to the Pyrates, is, that the
Traders settled here, are naturally their Friends. There are about 30
_English_ Men in all, Men who in some Part of their Lives, have been either
privateering, buccaneering, or pyrating, and still retain and love the
Riots, and Humours, common to that sort of Life. They live very friendly
with the Natives, and have many of them of both Sexes, to be their
_Grometta_'s, or Servants: The Men are faithful, and the Women so obedient,
that they are very ready to prostitute themselves to whomsoever their
Masters shall command them. The Royal _African_ Company has a Fort on a
small Island call'd _Bence_ Island, but 'tis of little Use, besides keeping
their Slaves; the Distance making it incapable of giving any Molestation to
their Starboard Shore. Here lives at this Place an old Fellow, who goes by
the Name of _Crackers_, who was formerly a noted Buccaneer, and while he
followed the Calling, robb'd and plundered many a Man; he keeps the best
House in the Place, has two or three Guns before his Door, with which he
Salutes his Friends, (the Pyrates, when they put in) and lives a jovial
Life with him, all the while they are there.

Here follows a List, of the rest of those lawless Merchants, and their
Servants, who carry on a private Trade with the Interlopers, to the great
Prejudice of the Royal _African_ Company, who with extraordinary Industry
and Expence, have made, and maintain, Settlements without any Consideration
from those, who, without such Settlements and Forts, would soon be under an
Incapacity of pursuing any such private Trade. Wherefore, 'tis to be hop'd,
proper Means will be taken, to root out a pernicious set of People, who
have all their Lives, supported themselves by the Labours of other Men.

Two of these Fellows enter'd with _Robert_'s Crew, and continued with them,
till the Destruction of the Company.

_A List of the White-Men, now living on the high Land of_ Sierraleon,
_and the Craft they occupy._

J_OHN Leadstone_, three Boats and Periagoe.

His Man _Tom_,

His Man _John Brown._

_Alexander Middleton_, one Long-Boat,

His Man _Charles Hawkins._

_John Pierce_, Partners, one Long-Boat.

_William Mead_, Partners, one Long-Boat.

Their Man _John Vernon._

_David Chatmers_, one Long-Boat.

_John Chatmers_, one Long-Boat.

_Richard Richardson_, one Long-Boat.

_Norton_, Partners, two Long-Boats, and two small Boats.

_Richard Warren_, Partners, two Long-Boats, and two small Boats.

_Roberts Glynn_, Partners, two Long-Boats, and two small Boats.

His Man _John Franks._

_William Waits_, and one young Man.

_John Bonnerman._

_John England_, one Long-Boat.

_Robert Samples_, one Long-Boat.

_William Presgrove_, one Sloop, two Long-Boats, a small Boat, and Periagoe.

_Harry_, one Sloop, two Long-Boats, a small Boat, and Periagoe.

_Davis_, one Sloop, two Long-Boats, a small Boat, and Periagoe.

_Mitchel_, one Sloop, two Long-Boats, a small Boat, and Periagoe.

_Richard Lamb_,

With _Roquis Rodrigus_, a _Portuguese._

_George Bishop._

_Peter Brown._

_John Jones_, one Long-Boat,

His _Irish_ young Man.

At _Rio Pungo, Benjamen Gun._

At _Kidham, George Yeats._

At _Gallyneas, Richard Lemmons._

* * *