And the Fruits of my neglecting the publick Worship of God, and prophaning
the holy Sabbath.

And of my blaspheming the Name of God, my Maker.

But my Drunkenness has had a great Hand in bringing my Ruin upon me. I was
drunk when I was enticed aboard the Pyrate.

And now, for all the vile Things I did aboard, I own the Justice of God and
Man, in what is done unto me.

Of both together.

We hope, we truly hate the Sins, whereof we have the Burthen lying so heavy
upon our Consciences.

We warn all People, and particularly young People, against such Sins as
these. We wish, all may take Warning by us.

We beg for Pardon, for the sake of Christ, our Saviour; and our Hope is in
him alone. Oh! _that in his Blood our Scarlet and Crimson Guilt may be all
washed away!_

We are sensible of an hard Heart in us, full of Wickedness. And we look
upon God for his renewing Grace upon us.

We bless God for the Space of Repentance which he has given us; and that he
has not cut us off in the Midst and Heighth of our Wickedness.

We are not without Hope, that God has been savingly at work upon our Souls.

We are made sensible of our absolute Need of the Righteousness of Christ;
that we may stand justified before God in that. We renounce all Dependance
on our own.

We are humbly thankful to the Ministers of Christ, for the great Pains they
have taken for our Good. The Lord Reward their Kindness.

We don't Despair of Mercy; but hope, through Christ, that when we dye, we
shall find Mercy with God, and be received into his Kingdom.

We wish others, and especially the Sea-faring, may get Good by what they
see this Day befalling of us.

_Declared in the Presence of_ J. W. D. M.

CHAP. XVI. OF Captain _SPRIGGS_, And his CREW.

S_Priggs_ sailed with _Low_ for a pretty while, and I believe came
away from _Lowther_, along with him; he was Quarter-Master to the Company,
and consequently had a great Share in all the Barbarities committed by that
execrable Gang, till the Time they parted; which was about _Christmas_
last, when _Low_ took a Ship of 12 Guns on the Coast of _Guiney_, called
the _Delight_, (formerly the _Squirrel_ Man of War,) commanded by Captain
_Hunt. Spriggs_ took Possession of the Ship with eighteen Men, left _Low_
in the Night, and came to the _West-Indies._ This Separation was occasioned
by a Quarrel with _Low_, concerning a Piece of Justice _Spriggs_ would have
executed upon one of the Crew, for killing a Man in cold Blood, as they
call it, one insisting that he should be hang'd, and the other that he
should not.

A Day or two after they parted, _Spriggs_ was chose Captain by the rest,
and a black Ensign was made, which they called _Jolly Roger_, with the same
Device that Captain _Low_ carried, _viz._ a white Skeliton in the Middle of
it, with a Dart in one Hand striking a bleeding Heart, and in the other, an
Hour-Glass; when this was finished and hoisted, they fired all their Guns
to salute their Captain and themselves, and then looked out for Prey.