_Roberts_ himself made a gallant Figure, at the Time of the Engagement,
being dressed in a rich crimson Damask Wastcoat and Breeches, a red Feather
in his Hat, a Gold Chain round his Neck, with a Diamond Cross hanging to
it, a Sword in his Hand, and two Pair of Pistols hanging at the End of a
Silk Sling, flung over his Shoulders (according to the Fashion of the
Pyrates;) and is said to have given his Orders with Boldness, and Spirit;
coming, according to what he had purposed, close to the Man of War,
received her Fire, and then hoisted his Black Flag, and returned it,
shooting away from her, with all the Sail he could pack; and had he took
_Armstrong_'s Advice, to have gone before the Wind, he had probably
escaped; but keeping his Tacks down, either by the Winds shifting, or ill
Steerage, or both, he was taken a-back with his Sails, and the _Swallow_
came a second Time very nigh to him: He had now perhaps finished the Fight
very desperately, if Death, who took a swift Passage in a Grape-Shot, had
not interposed, and struck him directly on the Throat. He settled himself
on the Tackles of a Gun, which one _Stephenson_, from the Helm, observing,
ran to his Assistance, and not perceiving him wounded, swore at him, and
bid him stand up, and fight like a Man; but when he found his Mistake, and
that his Captain was certainly dead, he gushed into Tears, and wished the
next Shot might be his Lot. They presently threw him over-board, with his
Arms and Ornaments on, according to the repeated Request he made in his
Life-time.

_Roberts_ was a tall black Man, near forty Years of Age, born at
_Newey-bagh_, nigh _Haverford-West_, in _Pembrokshire_, of good natural
Parts, and personal Bravery, tho' he applied them to such wicked Purposes,
as made them of no Commendation, frequently drinking _D--n to him who ever
lived to wear a Halter._ He was forc'd himself at first among this Company
out of the _Prince_, Captain _Plumb_ at _Anamaboe_, about three Years
before, where he served as second Mate, and shed, as he us'd to tell the
_fresh Men_, as many Crocodile Tears then as they did now, but Time and
good Company had wore it off. He could not plead Want of Employment, nor
Incapacity of getting his Bread in an honest way, to favour so vile a
Change, nor was he so much a Coward as to pretend it; but frankly own'd, it
was to get rid of the disagreeable Superiority of some Masters he was
acquainted with, and the Love of Novelty and Change, Maritime
Peregrinations had accustom'd him to. _In an honest Service_, says he,
_there is thin Commons, low Wages, and hard Labour; in this, Plenty and
Satiety, Pleasure and Ease, Liberty and Power; and who would not ballance
Creditor on this Side, when all the Hazard that is run for it, at worst, is
only a sour Look or two at choaking. No_, A merry Life and a short one,
_shall be my Motto._ Thus he preach'd himself into an Approbation of what
he at first abhorr'd; and being daily regal'd with Musick, Drinking, and
the Gaiety and Diversions of his Companions, these deprav'd Propensities
were quickly edg'd and strengthen'd, to the extinguishing of Fear and
Conscience. Yet among all the vile and ignominious Acts he had perpetrated,
he is said to have had an Aversion towards forcing Men into that Service,
and had procured some their Discharge, notwithstanding so many made it
their Plea.