After Captain _Holford_'s Departure, another Ship put in to the same Island
in her Way home for Water; none of whose Company knowing _Vane_, he easily
passed upon them for another Man, and so was shipp'd for the Voyage. One
would be apt to think that _Vane_ was now pretty safe, and likely to escape
the Fate which his Crimes had merited; but here a cross Accident happen'd
that ruin'd all: _Holford_, returning from the Bay, was met with by this
Ship; the Captains being very well acquainted together, _Holford_ was
invited to dine aboard of him, which he did; and as he passed along to the
Cabin, he chanced to cast his Eye down the Hold, and there saw _Charles
Vane_ at work; he immediately spoke to the Captain, saying, _Do you know
who you have got aboard here? Why_, says he, _I have shipp'd a Man at such
an Island, who was cast away in a trading Sloop, he seems to be a brisk
Hand. I tell you_, says Captain _Holford, it is_ Vane _the notorious
Pyrate. If it be him_, replies the other, _I won't keep him: Why then_,
says _Holford, I'll send and take him aboard, and surrender him at_
Jamaica. Which being agreed to, Captain _Holford_, as soon as he returned
to his Ship, sent his Boat with his Mate armed, who coming to _Vane_,
shewed him a Pistol, and told him, _He was his Prisoner_; which none
opposing, he was brought aboard, and put in Irons; and when Captain
_Holford_ arrived at _Jamaica_, he delivered his old Acquaintance into the
Hands of Justice; at which Place he was try'd, convicted, and executed, as
was, some Time before, _Vane_'s Consort, _Robert Deal_, brought thither by
one of the Men of War.

CHAP. VII. OF Captain _John Rackam_, And his CREW.

THIS _John Rackam_, as has been mentioned in the last Chapter, was
Quarter-Master to _Vane_'s Company, till they were divided, and _Vane_
turned out for refusing to board and fight the _French_ Man of War; then
_Rackam_ was voted Captain of that Division that remained in the
Brigantine. The 24th of _November_ 1718, was the first Day of his Command,
and his first Cruize was among the _Caribbee Islands_, where he took and
plunder'd several Vessels.

We have already taken Notice, that when Captain _Woodes Rogers_ went to the
Island of _Providence_, with the King's Pardon to such as should surrender,
this Brigantine, which _Rackam_ now commanded, made its Escape, thro'
another Passage, bidding Defiance to Mercy.

To Windward of _Jamaica_, a _Madera_ Man fell into the Pyrates Way, which
they detained two or three Days, till they had made their Market out of
her, and then gave her back to the Master, and permitted one _Hosea
Tisdell_, a Tavern-Keeper at _Jamaica_, who had been pick'd up in one of
their Prizes, to depart in her, she being then bound for that Island.

After this Cruize, they went into a small Island and cleaned, and spent
their _Christmas_ ashore, drinking and carousing as long as they had any
Liquor left, and then went to Sea again for more, where they succeeded but
too well, though they took no extraordinary Prize, for above two Months,
except a Ship laden with Thieves from _Newgate_, bound for the Plantations,
which, in a few Days, was retaken with all her Cargo, by an _English_ Man
of War.