Two other Pyrates were try'd that belonged to _Rackam_'s Crew, and being
convicted, were brought up, and asked if either of them had any Thing to
say why Sentence of Death should not pass upon them, in like Manner as had
been done to all the rest; and both of them pleaded their Bellies, being
quick with Child, and pray'd that Execution might be stay'd, whereupon the
Court passed Sentence, as in Cases of Pyracy, but ordered them back, till a
proper Jury should be appointed to enquire into the Matter.

_The_ LIFE _of_ MARY READ,

NOW we are to begin a History full of surprizing Turns and
Adventures; I mean, that of _Mary Read_ and _Anne Bonny_, alias _Bonn_,
which were the true Names of these two Pyrates; the odd Incidents of their
rambling Lives are such, that some may be tempted to think the whole Story
no better than a Novel or Romance; but since it is supported by many
thousand Witnesses, I mean the People of _Jamaica_, who were present at
their Tryals, and heard the Story of their Lives, upon the first discovery
of their Sex; the Truth of it can be no more contested, than that there
were such Men in the World, as _Roberts_ and _Black-beard_, who were
Pyrates.

_Mary Read_ was born in _England_, her Mother was married young, to a Man
who used the Sea, who going a Voyage soon after their Marriage, left her
with Child, which Child proved to be a Boy. As to the Husband, whether he
was cast away, or died in the Voyage, _Mary Read_ could not tell; but
however, he never returned more; nevertheless, the Mother, who was young
and airy, met with an Accident, which has often happened to Women who are
young, and do not take a great deal of Care; which was, she soon proved
with Child again, without a Husband to Father it, but how, or by whom, none
but her self could tell, for she carried a pretty good Reputation among her
Neighbours. Finding her Burthen grow, in order to conceal her Shame, she
takes a formal Leave of her Husband's Relations, giving out, that she went
to live with some Friends of her own, in the Country: Accordingly she went
away, and carried with her her young Son, at this Time, not a Year old:
Soon after her Departure her Son died, but Providence in Return, was
pleased to give her a Girl in his Room, of which she was safely delivered,
in her Retreat, and this was our _Mary Read_.

Here the Mother liv'd three or four Years, till what Money she had was
almost gone; then she thought of returning to _London_, and considering
that her Husband's Mother was in some Circumstances, she did not doubt but
to prevail upon her, to provide for the Child, if she could but pass it
upon her for the same, but the changing a Girl into a Boy, seem'd a
difficult Piece of Work, and how to deceive an experienced old Woman, in
such a Point, was altogether as impossible; however, she ventured to dress
it up as a Boy, brought it to Town, and presented it to her Mother in Law,
as her Husband's Son; the old Woman would have taken it, to have bred it
up, but the Mother pretended it would break her Heart, to part with it; so
it was agreed betwixt them, that the Child should live with the Mother, and
the supposed Grandmother should allow a Crown a Week for it's Maintainance.