Provisions were very scarce, and they now resolved to visit their good
Friends the _Dutch_, at _Cochin_, who, if you will believe these Rogues,
never fail of supplying Gentlemen of their Profession. After three Days
sail, they arrived off _Tellechery_, and took a small Vessel belonging to
Governor _Adams, John Tawke_ Master, whom they brought on Board very drunk,
and he giving an Account of Captain _Mackra_'s fitting out, put them in a
Tempest of Passion: _A Villain_, say they, _that we have treated so
civilly, as to give him a Ship and other Presents, and now to be armed
against us, he ought to be hanged; and since we cannot show our Resentment
on him, let us hang the Dogs his People, who wish him well, and would do
the same, if clear. If it be in my Power_, says the Quarter-Master, _both
Masters and Officers of Ships shall be carried with us for the future, only
to plague them. --d--n_ England.

Thence they proceeded to _Calicut_, where they endeavoured to take a large
_Moor_ Ship out of the Road, but was prevented by some Guns mounted on
Shore, and discharged at them: Mr. _Lasinby_, who was one of Captain
_Mackra_'s Officers, and detained, was under the Deck at this Time, and
commanded both by the Captain and Quarter Master of the Pyrates, to tend
the Braces on the Booms, in hopes, it was believed, a Shot would take him
before they got clear, asking the Reason why he was not there before? And
when he would have excused himself, threat'ned on the like Neglect to shoot
him; at which the other beginning to expostulate farther, and claim their
Promise of putting him ashore, got an unmerciful beating from the
Quarter-Master. Captain _Taylor_, who was now Successor to _England_, and
whose Priviledge it was to do so, being lame of his Hands, and unable.

The next Day in their Passage down, came up with a _Dutch_ Galliot, bound
for _Calicut_ with Lime Stone, and aboard of her they put Captain _Tawke_,
and sent him away, and several of the People interceeded for _Lasinby_ in
vain, _For_, says _Taylor_ and his Party, _if we let this Dog go, who has
heard our Designs and Resolutions, we overset all our well advised
Projections, and particularly this Supply we are now seeking for, at the
Hands of the_ Dutch.

It was but one Day more before they arrived off _Cochin_, where, by a
Fishing-Canoe, they sent a Letter on Shore; and in the Afternoon, with the
Sea-breeze, ran into the Road and anchored, saluting the Fort with 11 Guns
each Ship, and received the Return, in an equal Number; a good Omen of the
welcome Reception they found; for at Night there came on Board a large
Boat, deeply laden with fresh Provisions and Liquors, and with it a Servant
(of a favourite Inhabitant) called _John Trumpet_: He told them they must
immediately weigh, and run farther to the Southward, where they should be
supplied with all Things they wanted, naval Stores or Provisions.