Hither our Pyrates came, having made a Tour of half the Globe, as the
Psalmist says of the Devils, _Going about like roaring Lions, seeking whom
they might devour_. They took several Country Ships, that is, _Indian_
Vessels, and one European, a _Dutch_ Ship, which they exchanged for one of
their own, and then came back to _Madagascar_.

They sent several of their Hands on Shore with Tents, Powder, and Shot, to
kill Hogs, Venison, and such other fresh Provision as the Island afforded,
and a Whim came into their Heads to seek out for the Remains of _Avery_'s
Crew, whom they knew to be settled somewhere in the Island.--Accordingly
some of them travell'd several Days Journey, without hearing any
Intelligence of them, and so were forc'd to return with the Loss of their
Labour, for these Men were settled on the other Side of the Island, as has
been taken Notice of under the Chapter of _Avery_.

They stay'd not long here, after they had clean'd their Ships, but sailing
to _Juanna_; they met two _English_, and one _Ostend India_ Men, coming out
of that Harbour, one of which, after a desperate Resistance, they took; the
Particulars of which Action is at length related in the following Letter,
wrote by the Captain from _Bombay_.

A LETTER from Captain _Mackra_, dated at _Bombay, Nov._ 16, 1720.

W_E arrived the_ 25_th of_ July _last, in Company of the_ Greenwich,
_at_ Juanna, (_an Island not far from_ Madagascar) _putting in there to
refresh our Men, we found fourteen Pyrates that came in their Canoes from
the_ Mayotta, _where the Pyrate Ship to which they belong'd_, viz. _the_
Indian Queen, _two hundred and fifty Tons, twenty eight Guns, and ninety
Men, commanded by Capt._ Oliver de la Bouche, _bound from the_ Guinea
_Coast to the_ East-Indies, _had been bulged and lost. They said they left
the Captain and_ 40 _of their Men building a new Vessel to proceed on their
wicked Design. Capt._ Kirby _and I concluding it might be of great Service
to the_ East-India _Company to destroy such a Nest of Rogues, were ready to
sail for that Purpose the_ 17_th of_ August, _about Eight o'Clock in the
Morning, when we discovered two Pyrate Ships standing into the Bay of_
Juanna, _one of thirty four, and the other of thirty Guns. I immediately
went on Board the_ Greenwich, _where they seem'd very diligent in
Preparations for an Engagement, and I left Capt._ Kirby _with mutual
Promises of standing by each other. I then unmoor'd, got under Sail, and
brought two Boats a-head to row me close to the_ Greenwich; _but he being
open to a Valley and a Breeze, made the best of his Way from me; which an_
Ostender _in our Company, of_ 22 _Guns, seeing, did the same, though the
Captain had promised heartily to engage with us, and I believe would have
been as good as his Word, if Capt._ Kirby _had kept his. About half an Hour
after Twelve, I called several times to the_ Greenwich _to bear down to our
Assistance, and fir'd Shot at him, but to no Purpose. For tho' we did not
doubt but he would join us, because when he got about a League from us, he
brought his Ship to, and look'd on, yet both he and the_ Ostender _basely
deserted us, and left us engaged with barbarous and inhuman Enemies, with
their black and bloody Flags hanging over us, without the least Appearance
of escaping being cut to Pieces. But God, in his good Providence,
determin'd otherwise; for notwithstanding their Superiority, we engaged 'em
both about three Hours, during which, the biggest received some Shot
betwixt Wind and Water, which made her keep off a little to stop her Leaks.
The other endeavoured all she could to board us, by rowing with her Oars,
being within half a Ship's Length of us above an Hour; but by good Fortune
we shot all her Oars to Pieces, which prevented them, and by consequence
saved our Lives_.