St. _Thome_ is the principal of the three, whose Governour is stiled
Captain General of the Islands, and from whom the other at _Princes_
receives his Commission, tho' nominated by the Court of _Portugal_: It is a
Bishoprick with a great many secular Clergy who appear to have neither
Learning nor Devotion, as may be judged by several of them being Negroes:
One of the Chief of them, invited us to hear Mass, as a Diversion to pass
Time away, where he, and his inferior Brethren acted such affected Gestures
and Strains of Voice, as shewed to their Dishonour, they had no other Aim
than pleasing us; and what I think was still worse, it was not without a
View of Interest; for as these Clergy are the chief Traders, they stoop to
pitiful and scandalous Methods for ingratiating themselves: They and the
Government, on this trading Account, maintain as great Harmony, being ever
jealous of each other, and practising little deceitful Arts to monopolize
what Strangers have to offer for sale, whether Toys or Cloaths, which of
all Sorts are ever Commodious with the _Portuguese_, in all Parts of the
World; an ordinary Suit of Black will sell for seven or eight Pound; a
Turnstile Wig of four Shillings, for a Moidore; a Watch of forty Shillings,
for six Pound, _&c_.

The Town is of mean Building, but large and populous, the Residence of the
greater Part of the Natives, who, thro' the whole Island, are computed at
10000, the Militia at 3000, and are in general, a rascally thievish
Generation, as an old grave Friend of mine can Witness; for he having
carried a Bag of second hand Cloaths on Shore, to truck for Provisions,
seated himself on the Sand for that Purpose, presently gathered a Crowd
round him, to view them; one of which desired to know the Price of a black
Suit, that unluckily lay uppermost, and was the best of them, agreeing to
the Demand, with little Hesitation, provided it would but fit him; he put
them on immediately, in as much hurry as possible, without any _co-licentia
Seignor_; and when my Friend was about to commend the Goodness of the Suit,
and Exactness they set with, not dreaming of the Impudence of running away
from a Crowd, the Rascal took to his Heels, my Friend followed and bawled
very much, and tho' there was 500 People about the Place, it served to no
other End but making him a clear Stage, that the best Pair of Heels might
carry it; so he lost the Suit of Cloaths, and before he could return to his
Bag, others of them had beat off his Servant, and shared the rest.

Most of the Ships from _Guiney_, of their own Nation, and frequently those
of ours, call at one or other of these Islands, to recruit with fresh
Provisions, and take in Water, which on the Coast are not so good, nor so
conveniently to come by: Their own Ships likewise, when they touch here,
are obliged to leave the King his Custom for their Slaves, which is always
in Gold, at so much a Head, without any Deduction at _Brasil_, for the
Mortality that may happen afterwards; this by being a constant Bank to pay
off the civil and military Charges of the Government, prevents the
Inconveniency of Remittances, and keeps both it and _Princes_ Isle rich
enough to pay ready Money for every Thing they want of _Europeans_.