The Massacre being finished, they washed themselves a little from the
Blood, and searched the Chests and Lockers, and all Places about the Ship,
and then set down in the Captain's Cabin, and refreshed themselves with
some Rum they found there, and (as _Roche_ confessed) were never merrier in
their Lives. They invested _Roche_ with the Command of the Ship, and
calling him Captain, talked over their Liquor, what rare Actions they would
perform about Cape _Briton, Sable Isle_, and the Banks of _Newfoundland_,
whither they designed to go as soon as they had recruited their Company,
and got a better Ship, which they proposed speedily to do.

_Roche_ taking upon himself the Command of the Vessel, _Andrew Cullen_ was
to pass for a Merchant or Super-cargo; but when they bethought themselves,
that they were in Danger of being discovered by the Papers of the Ship,
relating to the Cargo, as Bills of Lading, _&c._ therefore they erase and
take out the Name of the _French_ Master, and instead thereof, inserted the
Name of _Roche_, so that it stood in the Ship's Papers, _Peter Roche_
Master; that then having so few Hands on Board, they contrived if they met
any Ships, to give out, that they had lost some Hands by their being washed
overboard in a Storm, and by that Means screen themselves from being
suspected of having committed some such wicked Act, by Reason of the
Fewness of their Hands on Board; and also might prevail with some Ship to
spare them some, on Consideration of their pretended Disaster.

In going to _Cales_ they were in Distress by the Weather, and being near
_Lisbon_, they made Complaint to a Ship, but obtained no Assistance. They
were then obliged to sail back for _England_, and put into the Port of
_Dartmouth_; but then they were in fear least they might be discovered,
therefore to prevent that, they resolve to alter the Ship, and getting
Workmen, they take down the Mizzen-Mast, and build a Spar Deck, and made
Rails, (on pretence that the Sailors had been wash'd overboard) to secure
the Men. Then they took down the Image of St. _Peter_ at the Head of the
Ship, and put up a Lion in its Place, and painted over the Stern of the
Ship with Red, and new nam'd her the _Mary_ Snow. The Ship being thus
alter'd that they thought it could not be known, they fancy'd themselves
pretty secure; but wanting Money to defray the Charge of these Alterations,
_Roche_, as Master of the Vessel, and _Andrew Cullen_, as Merchant, apply
themselves to the Officers of the Customs for Liberty to dispose of some of
the Cargo, in order to pay the Workmen; which they having obtained, they
sold fifty eight Barrels of Beef, and having hired three more Hands, they
set Sail for _Ostend_, and there having sold more Barrels of Beef, they
steer their Course to _Rotterdam_, dispose of the rest of the Cargo, and
took in one Mr. _Annesly_, who freighted the Ship for _England_; but in
their Passage, in a stormy Night, it being very dark, they took up Mr.
_Annesly_ their Passenger, and threw him into the Sea, who swam about the
Ship a pretty while, calling out for Life, and telling them they should
have all his Goods, if they would receive him again into the Vessel: But in
vain were his Cries!