_Yamms_ are a common Root, sweeter but not unlike Potato's: _Kulalu_, a
Herb like Spinnage: _Papa_, a Fruit less than the smallest Pumkins; they
are all three for boiling, and to be eat with Meat; the latter are improved
by the _English_ into a Turnip or an Apple Tast, with a due Mixture of
Butter or Limes.

_Guava's_, a Fruit as large as a Pipin, with Seeds and Stones in it, of an
uncouth astringing Tast, tho' never so much be said in Commendation of it,
at the _West-Indies_, it is common for _Cr√¶olians_, (who has tasted both,)
to give it a Preference to Peach or Nectarine, no amazing Thing when Men
whose Tasts are so degenerated, as to prefer a Toad in a Shell, (as _Ward_
calls Turtle,) to Venison, and Negroes to fine _English_ Ladies.

_Plantanes_ and _Bonano's_ are Fruit of oblong Figure, that I think differ
only _secundum Major & Minus_, if any, the latter are preferable, and by
being less, are juicier; they are usually, when stripped of their Coat, eat
at Meals instead of Bread: The Leaf of this Plantane is an admirable
Detergent, and, externally applied, I have seen cure the most obstinate
scorbutick Ulcers.

_Manyoco_. A Root that shoots its Branches about the heighth of a Currant
Bush; from this Root the Islanders make a Farine or Flower, which they sell
at three Ryals a Roove, and drive a considerable Trade for it with the
Ships that call in. The manner of making it, is first to press the Juice
from it, (which is poisonous) done here with Engines, and then the Negroe
Women, upon a rough Stone, rub it into a granulated Flower, reserved in
their Houses, either to boil, as we do our Wheat, and is a hearty Food for
the Slaves; or make it into a Bread, fine, white, and well tasted, for
themselves. One thing worth taking Notice about _Manyoco_ in this Island,
is, that the Woods abound with a wild poisonous and more mortiferous Sort,
which sometimes Men, unskilled in the Preparation of it, feed on to their
Destruction: This the Missionaries assured me they often experimented in
their Hogs, and believed we did in the Mortality of our Sailors.

_Indian Corn_, is likewise as well as the _Farine de Manyoco_ and Rice, the
common Victualling of our Slave Ships, and is afforded here at 1000 Heads
for two Dollars. This Corn grows eight or nine Foot high, on a hard Reed or
Stick, shooting forth at every six Inches Heighth, some long Leaves; it has
always an Ear, or rather Head, at top, of, perhaps, 400 Fold Increase; and
often two, three, or more, Midway.