After this the _Delivery_ proceeded to _Hispaniola_; near the West End of
the Island she met with a _French_ Sloop loaden with Wine and Brandy;
aboard of this Vessel went Captain _Massey_, as a Merchant, and ask'd the
Price of one Thing, and then another, bidding Money for the greatest Part
of the Cargo; but after he had trifled a while, he whisper'd a Secret in
the _French_ Man's Ear, _viz. That they must have it all without Money.
Monsieur_ presently understood his Meaning, and unwillingly agreed to the
Bargain. They took out of her thirty Casks of Brandy, five Hogsheads of
Wine, several Pieces of Chintzes, and other valuable Goods, and about 70
_l. English_, in Money; of which _Lowther_ generously return'd five Pounds
back to the _French_ Master for his Civilities.

But as all Constitutions grow old, and thereby shake and totter, so did our
Commonwealth in about a Month of its Age, feel Commotions and intestine
Disturbances, by the Divisions of its Members, which had near hand
terminated in its Destruction; these civil Discords were owing to the
following Occasion. Captain _Massey_ had been a Soldier almost from his
Infancy, but was but very indifferently acquainted with Maritime Affairs,
and having an enterprizing Soul, nothing would satisfy him, but he must be
doing Business in his own Way, therefore he required _Lowther_ to let him
have thirty Hands to land with, and he would attack the _French_
Settlements, and bring aboard the Devil and all of Plunder.

_Lowther_ did all that he could do, and said all that he could say, to
disswade _Massey_ from so rash and dangerous an Attempt; pointing out to
him the Hazard the Company would run, and the Consequences to them all, if
he should not succeed, and the little Likelihood there was to expect
Success from the Undertaking: But 'twas all one for that, _Massey_ would go
and attack the _French_ Settlements, for any thing _Lowther_ could say
against it; so that he was obliged to propose the Matter to the Company,
among whom _Massey_ found a few Fellows as resolute as himself; however, a
great Majority being against it, the Affair was over-ruled in Opposition to
Captain _Massey_, notwithstanding which, _Massey_ grew fractious,
quarrelled with _Lowther_, and the Men divided into Parties, some siding
with the Land Pyrate, and some with the Sea Rover, and were all ready to
fall together by the Ears, when the Man at the Mast-head cry'd out, A Sail!
A Sail! then they gave over the Dispute, set all their Sails, and steered
after the Chace. In a few Hours they came up with her, she being a small
Ship from _Jamaica_, bound to _England_; they took what they thought fit
out of her, and a Hand or two, and then _Lowther_ was for sinking the Ship,
with several Passengers that were in her, for what Reason I know not, but
_Massey_ so that he interposed, prevented their cruel Fate, and the Ship
safely arrived afterwards in _England._

The next Day they took a small Sloop, an interloping Trader, which they
detain'd with her Cargo. All this while _Massey_ was uneasy, and declar'd
his Resolution to leave them, and _Lowther_ finding him a very troublesome
Man to deal with, consented that he should take the Sloop, last made Prize
of, with what Hands had a Mind to go with him, and shift for himself.
Whereupon _Massey_, with about ten more Malecontents, goes aboard the
Sloop, and comes away in her directly for _Jamaica._