The Pyrates, I mean those of the _Cassandra_, now Captain _Taylor_, fitted
the _Portuguese_ Man of War, and resolved upon another Voyage to the
_Indies_, notwithstanding the Riches they had heaped up; but as they were
preparing to sail, they heard of the four Men of War coming after them to
those Seas, therefore they altered their Minds, sail'd for the Main of
_Africa_, and put in at a little Place called _Delagoa_, near the River _de
Spiritu Sancto_, on the Coast of _Monomotapa_, in 26Â° South Latitude. They
believed this to be a Place of Security, in regard that the Squadron could
not possibly get Intelligence of them, there being no Correspondence over
Land, nor any Trade carried on by Sea, between that and the Cape, where the
Men of War were then supposed to be. The Pyrates came to in the Evening,
and were surprized with a few Shot from the Shore, not knowing of any
Fortification or _European_ Settlement in that Part of the World; so they
anchored at a Distance that Night, and perceiving, in the Morning, a small
Fort of six Guns, they run up to it, and battered it down.

This Fort was built and settled by the _Dutch East-India_ Company, a few
Months before, for what Purpose, I know not, and having left 150 Men upon
the Place, they were then dwindled to a third Part by Sickness and
Casualties, and never after received any Relief or Necessaries; so that
Sixteen of those that were left, upon their humble Petition, were admitted
on Board the Pyrates, and all the rest would have had the same Favour (they
said) had they been any other than _Dutch_. I mention this, as an Instance
of their Ingratitude, who had been so much obliged to their Countrymen for
Support.

Here they staid above four Months, carreened both their Ships, and took
their Diversions with Security, till they had expended all their
Provisions, and then put to Sea, leaving considerable Quantities of
Muslins, Chintzes, and such Goods behind, to the half starved _Dutch_ Men,
which enabled them to make good Pennyworths to the next that came, to whom
they bartered for Provisions, at the Rate of three Farthings an _English_
Yard.

They left _Delagoa_ the latter End of _December_ 1722, but not agreeing
where, or how to proceed, they concluded to part, so those who were for
continuing that sort of Life, went on Board the _Portuguese_ Prize, and
steered for _Madagascar_ to their Friends, with whom I hear they are now
settled; and the rest took the _Cassandra_ and sailed for the _Spanish
West-Indies_. The _Mermaid_ Man of War happening then to be down on the
Main with a Convoy, about 30 Leagues from these Pyrates, would have gone
and attacked them; but on a Consultation of the Masters, whose Safety he
was particularly to regard, they agreed their own Protection was of more
Service than destroying the Pyrate, and so the Commander was unwillingly
withheld. He dispatched a Sloop to _Jamaica_, with the News, which brought
down the _Lanceston_, only a Day, or two, too late, they having just before
he came, surrendered with all their Riches, to the Governor of _Porto
Bello_.