_England_ was inclined to favour Captain _Mackra_; but he was so free to
let him know, that his Interest was declining amongst them; and that the
Pyrates were so provoked at the Resistance he made against them, that he
was afraid he should hardly be able to protect him; he therefore advised
him to sooth up and manage the Temper of Captain _Taylor_, a Fellow of a
most barbarous Nature, who was become a great Favourite amongst them for no
other Reason than because he was a greater Brute than the rest. _Mackra_
did what he could to soften this Beast, and ply'd him with warm Punch;
notwithstanding which, they were in a Tumult whether they should make an
End of him, or no, when an Accident happen'd which turn'd to the Favour of
the poor Captain; a Fellow with a terrible pair of Whiskers, and a wooden
Leg, being stuck round with Pistols, like the Man in the Almanack with
Darts, comes swearing and vapouring upon the Quarter-Deck, and asks, in a
damning Manner, which was Captain _Mackra_: The Captain expected no less
than that this Fellow would be his Executioner;--but when he came near him,
he took him by the Hand, swearing, _Damn him he was glad to see him; and
shew me the Man_, says he, _that offers to hurt Captain_ Mackra, _for I'll
stand by him_; and so with many Oaths told him, _he was an honest Fellow,
and that he had formerly sail'd with him_.

This put an End to the Dispute, and Captain _Taylor_ was so mellow'd with
the Punch, that he consented that the old Pyrate Ship, and so many Bales of
Cloth should be given to Captain _Mackra_, and so he fell asleep. _England_
advised Captain _Mackra_ to get off with all Expedition, least when the
Beast should awake, he might repent his Generosity: Which Advice was
followed by the Captain.

Captain _England_ having sided so much to Captain _Mackra_'s Interest, was
a Means of making him many Enemies among the Crew; they thinking such good
Usage inconsistent with their Polity, because it looked like procuring
Favour at the Aggravation of their Crimes; therefore upon Imagination or
Report, that Captain _Mackra_ was fitting out against them, with the
Company's Force, he was soon _abdicated_ or pulled out of his Government,
and marooned with three more on the Island of _Mauritius_: An Island
indeed, not to be complained of, had they accumulated any Wealth by their
Villanies that would have afforded some future comfortable Prospect, for it
abounds with Fish, Deer, Hogs and other Flesh. Sir _Thomas Herbert_, says,
the Shores with Coral and Ambergrease; but I believe the _Dutch_ had not
deserted it, had there been much of these Commodities to have been found.
It was in 1722, resettled by the _French_, who have a Fort at another
neighbouring Island, called _Don Mascarine_, and are touched at for Water,
Wood, and Refreshments, by _French_ Ships bound to, or for _India_; as St.
_Helena_ and _Cape Bon Esperance_, are by us and the _Dutch_. From this
Place, Captain _England_ and his Companions having made a little Boat of
Staves and old Pieces of Deal left there, went over to _Madagascar_, where
they subsist at present on the Charity of some of their Brethren, who had
made better Provision for themselves, than they had done.