_If Subjects in Enmity with the Crown of_ England, _are abord an_ English
_Pyrate, in Company with_ English, _and a Robbery is committed, and they
are taken; it is Felony in the_ English, _but not in the Stranger; for it
was no Pyracy in them, but the Depredation of an Enemy, and they will be
tried by a Martial Law._

_If Pyracy is committed by Subjects in Enmity with_ England, _upon the_
British _Seas, it is properly only punishable by the Crown of_ England,
_who have_ istud regimen & Dominem _exclusive of all other Power._

_If Pyracy be committed on the Ocean, and the Pyrates in the Attempt be
overcome, the Captors may, without any Solemnity of Condemnation, hang them
up at the Main-Yard; if they are brought to the next Port, and the Judge
rejects the Tryal, or the Captors cannot wait for the Judge, without Peril
or Loss, Justice may be done upon them by the Captors._

_If Merchandize be delivered to a Master, to carry to one Port, and he
carries it to another, and sells and disposes of it, this is not Felony;
but if, after unlading it at the first Port, he retakes it, it is Pyracy._

_If a Pyrate attack a Ship, and the Master for Redemption, gives his Oath
to pay a Sum of Money, tho' there be nothing taken, yet it is Pyracy by the
Law_ Marine.

_If a Ship is riding at Anchor, and the Mariners all ashore, and a Pyrate
attack her, and rob her, this is Pyracy._

_If a Man commit Pyracy upon the Subjects of any Prince, or Republick_,
(_though in Amity with us,) and brings the Goods into_ England, _and sells
them in a Market_ Overt, _the same shall bind, and the Owners are for ever
excluded._

_If a Pyrate enters a Port of this Kingdom, and robs a Ship at Anchor
there, it is not Pyracy, because not done_, super altum Mare; _but is
Robbery at common Law, because_ infra Corpus Comitatus. _A Pardon of all
Felonies does not extend to Pyracy, but the same ought to be especially
named._

_By_ 28 H. 8. _Murthers and Robberies committed upon the Sea, or in other
Places, where the Admiral pretends Jurisdiction, shall be enquired into,
try'd, heard, and determined, in such Places and Counties within the Realm,
as shall be limited by the King's Commission, in like Manner as if such
Offences were done at Land. And such Commissions_ (_being under the Great
Seal_) _shall be directed to the Lord Admiral, his Lieutenant or Deputy,
and to three or four such others as the Lord Chancellor shall name._

_The said Commissioners, or three of them, have Power to enquire of such
Offences by twelve lawful Men of the Country, so limited in their
Commission, as if such Offences were done at Land, within the same County;
and every Indictment so found and presented, shall be good in Law; and such
Order, Progress, Judgment, and Execution shall be used, had, done, and made
thereupon, as against Offenders for Murder and Felony done at Land. Also
the Tryal of such Offences_ (_if they be denied_) _shall be had by twelve
Men of the County, limited in the said Commission_, (_as aforesaid_,) _and
no Challenge shall be had for the Hundred: And such as shall be convict of
such Offences, shall suffer Death without Benefit of Clergy, and forfeit
Land and Goods, as in Case of Felonies and Murders done at Land._