This Beard was black, which he suffered to grow of an extravagant Length;
as to Breadth, it came up to his Eyes; he was accustomed to twist it with
Ribbons, in small Tails, after the Manner of our Ramilies Wiggs, and turn
them about his Ears: In Time of Action, he wore a Sling over his Shoulders,
with three brace of Pistols, hanging in Holsters like Bandaliers; and stuck
lighted Matches under his Hat, which appearing on each Side of his Face,
his Eyes naturally looking fierce and wild, made him altogether such a
Figure, that Imagination cannot form an Idea of a Fury, from Hell, to look
more frightful.

If he had the look of a Fury, his Humours and Passions were suitable to it;
we shall relate two or three more of his Extravagancies, which we omitted
in the Body of his History, by which it will appear, to what a Pitch of
Wickedness, human Nature may arrive, if it's Passions are not checked.

In the Commonwealth of Pyrates, he who goes the greatest Length of
Wickedness, is looked upon with a kind of Envy amongst them, as a Person of
a more extraordinary Gallantry, and is thereby entitled to be distinguished
by some Post, and if such a one has but Courage, he must certainly be a
great Man. The Hero of whom we are writing, was thoroughly accomplished
this Way, and some of his Frolicks of Wickedness, were so extravagant, as
if he aimed at making his Men believe he was a Devil incarnate; for being
one Day at Sea, and a little flushed with drink:--_Come_, says he, _let us
make a Hell of our own, and try how long we can bear it_; accordingly he,
with two or three others, went down into the Hold, and closing up all the
Hatches, filled several Pots full of Brimstone, and other combustible
Matter, and set it on Fire, and so continued till they were almost
suffocated, when some of the Men cried out for Air; at length he opened the
Hatches, not a little pleased that he held out the longest.

The Night before he was killed, he set up and drank till the Morning, with
some of his own Men, and the Master of a Merchant-Man, and having had
Intelligence of the two Sloops coming to attack him, as has been before
observed; one of his Men asked him, in Case any thing should happen to him
in the Engagement with the Sloops, whether his Wife knew where he had
buried his Money? He answered, _That no Body but himself and the Devil,
knew where it was, and the longest Liver should take all._

Those of his Crew who were taken alive, told a Story which may appear a
little incredible; however, we think it will not be fair to omit it, since
we had it from their own Mouths. That once upon a Cruize, they found out
that they had a Man on Board more than their Crew; such a one was seen
several Days amongst them, sometimes below, and sometimes upon Deck, yet no
Man in the Ship could give an Account who he was, or from whence he came;
but that he disappeared little before they were cast away in their great
Ship, but, it seems, they verily believed it was the Devil.