However, he fitted out a Sloop with ten Guns and 70 Men, entirely at his
own Expence, and in the Night-Time sailed from _Barbadoes_. He called his
Sloop the _Revenge_; his first Cruize was off the Capes of _Virginia_,
where he took several Ships, and plundered them of their Provisions,
Cloaths, Money, Ammunition, _&c._ in particular the _Anne_, Captain
_Montgomery_, from _Glascow_; the _Turbet_ from _Barbadoes_, which for
Country sake, after they had taken out the principal Part of the Lading,
the Pyrate Crew set her on Fire; the _Endeavour_, Captain _Scot_, from
_Bristol_, and the _Young_ from _Leith_. From hence they went to
_New-York_, and off the East End of _Long-Island_, took a Sloop bound for
the _West-Indies_, after which they stood in and landed some Men at
_Gardner_'s _Island_, but in a peaceable Manner, and bought Provisions for
the Company's Use, which they paid for, and so went off again without
Molestation.

Some Time after, which was in _August_ 1717, _Bonnet_ came off the Bar of
_South-Carolina_, and took a Sloop and a Brigantine bound in; the Sloop
belonged to _Barbadoes, Joseph Palmer_ Master, laden with Rum, Sugar and
Negroes; and the Brigantine came from _New-England, Thomas Porter_ Master,
whom they plundered, and then dismiss'd; but they sailed away with the
Sloop, and at an Inlet in _North-Carolina_ careened by her, and then set
her on Fire.

After the Sloop had cleaned, they put to Sea, but came to no Resolution
what Course to take; the Crew were divided in their Opinions, some being
for one Thing, and some another, so that nothing but Confusion seem'd to
attend all their Schemes.

The Major was no Sailor as was said before, and therefore had been obliged
to yield to many Things that were imposed on him, during their Undertaking,
for want of a competent Knowledge in maritime Affairs; at length happening
to fall in Company with another Pyrate, one _Edward Teach_, (who for his
remarkable black ugly Beard, was more commonly called _Black-Beard_:) This
Fellow was a good Sailor, but a most cruel hardened Villain, bold and
daring to the last Degree, and would not stick at the perpetrating the most
abominable Wickedness imaginable; for which he was made Chief of that
execrable Gang, that it might be said that his Post was not unduly filled,
_Black-beard_ being truly the Superior in Roguery, of all the Company, as
has been already related.

To him _Bonnet_'s Crew joined in Consortship, and _Bonnet_ himself was laid
aside, notwithstanding the Sloop was his own; he went aboard
_Black-beard_'s Ship, not concerning himself with any of their Affairs,
where he continued till she was lost in _Topsail_ Inlet, and one _Richards_
was appointed Captain in his Room. The Major now saw his Folly, but could
not help himself, which made him Melancholy; he reflected upon his past
Course of Life, and was confounded with Shame, when he thought upon what he
had done: His Behaviour was taken Notice of by the other Pyrates, who liked
him never the better for it; and he often declared to some of them, that he
would gladly leave off that Way of Living, being fully tired of it; but he
should be ashamed to see the Face of any _English_ Man again; therefore if
he could get to _Spain_ or _Portugal_, where he might be undiscovered, he
would spend the Remainder of his Days in either of those Countries,
otherwise he must continue with them as long as he lived.