The next Adventure was not so fortunate for them, for coming pretty near
the Coast of _South-Carolina_, they met with a Ship just come out, on her
Voyage to _England; Lowther_ gave her a Gun, and hoisted his pyratical
Colours; but this Ship, which was called the _Amy_, happening to have a
brave gallant Man to command her, who was not any ways daunted with that
terrible Ensign, the black Flag, he instead of striking immediately, as
'twas expected, let fly a Broadside at the Pyrate. _Lowther_ (not at all
pleased with the Compliment, tho' he put up with it for the present) was
for taking Leave; but the _Amy_ getting the Pyrate between her and the
Shore, stood after him to clap him aboard; to prevent which, _Lowther_ run
the Sloop a-ground, and landed all the Men with their Arms. Captain
_Gwatkins_, the Captain of the _Amy_, was obliged to stand off, for fear of
running his own Ship ashore; but at the same Time thought fit for the
publick Good, to destroy the Enemy; and thereupon went into the Boat, and
rowed towards the Sloop, in order to set her on Fire; but before he reached
the Vessel, a fatal Shot from _Lowther_'s Company ashore, put an End to
their Design and Captain _Gwatkin_'s Life. After this unfortunate Blow, the
Mate returned aboard with the Boat, and not being enclined to pursue them
any farther, took Charge of the Ship.

_Lowther_ got off the Sloop after the Departure of the _Amy_, and brought
all his Men aboard again, but was in a poor shattered Condition, having
suffered much in the Engagement, and had a great many Men kill'd and
wounded: He made Shift to get into an Inlet somewhere in _North-Carolina_,
where he staid a long while before he was able to put to Sea again.

He and his Crew laid up all the Winter, and shifted as well as they could
among the Woods, divided themselves into small Parties, and hunted
generally in the Day Times, killing of black Cattle, Hogs, _&c._ for their
Subsistance, and in the Night retired to their Tents and Huts, which they
made for Lodging; and sometimes when the Weather grew very cold, they would
stay aboard of their Sloop.

In the Spring of the Year 1723, they made Shift to get to Sea, and steered
their Course for _Newfoundland_, and upon the Banks took a Scooner, call'd
the _Swift, John Hood_ Master; they found a good Quantity of Provisions
aboard her, which they very much wanted at that Time, and after taking
three of their Hands, and plundering her of what they thought fit, they let
her depart. They took several other Vessels upon the Banks, and in the
Harbour, but none of any great Account; and then steering for a warmer
Climate, in _August_ arrived at the _West-Indies._ In their Passage
thither, they met with a Brigantine, called the _John_ and _Elizabeth,
Richard Stanny_ Master, bound for _Boston_, which they plundered, took two
of her Men, and discharged her.

_Lowther_ cruised a pretty while among the Islands without any
extraordinary Success, and was reduced to a very small Allowance of
Provisions, till they had the luck to fall in with a _Martinico_ Man, which
proved a seasonable Relief to them; and after that, a _Guiney_ Man had the
ill Fortune to become a Prey to the _Rovers_; she was called the
_Princess_, Captain _Wicksted_ Commander.