Notwithstanding what had passed, Captain _Massey_ puts a bold Face upon the
Matter, and goes to Sir _Nicholas Laws_, the Governor, informs him of his
leaving _Lowther_ the Pyrate, owns, _That he assisted in going off with the
Ship, at the River_ Gambia; but said, _'twas to save so many of his
Majesty's Subjects from perishing, and that his Design was to return to_
England; _but_ Lowther _conspiring with the greater Part of the Company,
went a pyrating with the Ship; and that he had taken this Opportunity to
leave him, and surrender himself and Vessel to his Excellency._

_Massey_ was very well received by the Governor, and had his Liberty given
him, with a Promise of his Favour, and so forth; and, at his own Request,
he was sent on Board the _Happy_ Sloop, Captain _Laws_, to cruise off
_Hispaniola_, for _Lowther_; but not being so fortunate as to meet with
him, Captain _Massey_ returned back to _Jamaica_ in the Sloop, and getting
a Certificate, and a Supply of Money, from the Governor, he came home
Passenger to _England._

When _Massey_ came to Town, he writes a long Letter to the Deputy Governor
and Directors of the _African_ Company, wherein he imprudently relates the
whole Transactions of his Voyage, the going off with the Ship, and the Acts
of Pyracy he had committed with _Lowther_; but excuses it as Rashness and
Inadvertency in himself, occasioned by his being ill used, contrary to the
Promises that had been made him, and the Expectations he had entertained;
but own'd, that he deserved to dye for what he had done; yet, if they had
Generosity enough to forgive him, as he was still capable to do them
Service, as a Soldier, so he should be very ready to do it; but if they
resolved to prosecute him, he begg'd only this Favour, that he might not be
hang'd like a Dog, but to die like a Soldier, as he had been bred from his
Childhood, that is, that he might be shot.

This was the Substance of the Letter, which, however, did not produce so
favourable an Answer as he hoped for, Word being brought back to him, _That
he should be fairly hang'd._ Whereupon, _Massey_ resolved not to be out of
the Way, when he found what important Occasion there was likely to be for
him, but takes a Lodging in _Aldersgate-Street_, the next Day went to the
Lord Chief Justice's Chambers, and enquired, if my Lord had granted a
Warrant against Captain _John Massey_, for Pyracy: But being told by the
Clerks, that they knew of no such Thing; he informed them, he was the Man,
that my Lord would soon be apply'd to for that Purpose, and the Officer
might come to him at such a Place, where he lodg'd: They took the
Directions in Writing, and, in a few Days, a Warrant being issued, the
Tipstaff went directly, by his own Information, and apprehended him,
without any other Trouble, than walking to his Lodging.