In the Times of _Marius_ and _Sylla_, _Rome_ was in her greatest Strength,
yet she was so torn in Pieces by the Factions of those two great Men, that
every Thing which concerned the publick Good was altogether neglected, when
certain Pyrates broke out from _Cicilia_, a Country of _Asia Minor_,
situate on the Coast of the _Mediterranean_, betwixt _Syria_ on the East,
from whence it is divided by Mount _Tauris_, and _Armenia Minor_ on the
West. This Beginning was mean and inconsiderable, having but two or three
Ships, and a few Men, with which they cruised about the _Greek_ Islands,
taking such Ships as were very ill arm'd or weakly defended; however, by
the taking of many Prizes, they soon increased in Wealth and Power: The
first Action of their's which made a Noise, was the taking of _Julius
Cæsar_, who was as yet a Youth, and who being obliged to fly from the
Cruelties of _Sylla_, who sought his Life, went into _Bithinia_, and
sojourned a while with _Nicomedes_, King of that Country; in his Return
back by Sea, he was met with, and taken, by some of these Pyrates, near the
Island of _Pharmacusa_: These Pyrates had a barbarous Custom of tying their
Prisoners Back to Back and throwing them into the Sea; but, supposing
_Cæsar_ to be some Person of a high Rank, because of his purple Robes, and
the Number of his Attendants, they thought it would be more for their
Profit to preserve him, in hopes of receiving a great Sum for his Ransom;
therefore they told him he should have his Liberty, provided he would pay
them twenty Talents, which they judg'd to be a very high Demand, in our
Money, about three thousand six hundred Pounds Sterling; he smiled, and of
his own Accord promised them fifty Talents; they were both pleased, and
surpriz'd at his Answer, and consented that several of his Attendants
should go by his Direction and raise the Money; and he was left among these
Ruffians with no more than 3 Attendants. He pass'd eight and thirty Days,
and seemed so little concerned or afraid, that often when he went to sleep,
he used to charge them not to make a Noise, threatening, if they disturbed
him, to hang them all; he also play'd at Dice with them, and sometimes
wrote Verses and Dialogues, which he used to repeat, and also cause them to
repeat, and if they did not praise and admire them, he would call them
Beasts and Barbarians, telling them he would crucify them. They took all
these as the Sallies of a juvenile Humour, and were rather diverted, than
displeased at them.