They passed some Time here, after they had got their Vessel ready, in their
usual Debaucheries; they had taken a considerable Quanty of Rum and Sugar,
so that Liquor was as plenty as Water, and few there were, who denied
themselves the immoderate Use of it; nay, Sobriety brought a Man under a
Suspicion of being in a Plot against the Commonwealth, and in their Sense,
he was looked upon to be a Villain that would not be drunk. This was
evident in the Affair of _Harry Glasby_, chosen Master of the _Royal
Fortune_, who, with two others, laid hold of the Opportunity at the last
Island they were at, to move off without bidding Farewel to his Friends.
_Glasby_ was a reserved sober Man, and therefore gave Occasion to be
suspected, so that he was soon missed after he went away; and a Detachment
being sent in quest of the Deserters, they were all three brought back
again the next Day. This was a capital Offence, and for which they were
ordered to be brought to an immediate Tryal.

Here was the Form of Justice kept up, which is as much as can be said of
several other Courts, that have more lawful Commissions for what they
do.--Here was no feeing of Council, and bribing of Witnesses was a Custom
not known among them; no packing of Juries, no torturing and wresting the
Sense of the Law, for bye Ends and Purposes, no puzzling or perplexing the
Cause with unintelligible canting Terms, and useless Distinctions; nor was
their Sessions burthened with numberless Officers, the Ministers of Rapine
and Extortion, with ill boding Aspects, enough to fright _Astr√¶a_ from the
Court. The Place appointed for their Tryals, was the Steerage of the Ship;
in order to which, a large Bowl of Rum Punch was made, and placed upon the
Table, the Pipes and Tobacco being ready, the judicial Proceedings began;
the Prisoners were brought forth, and Articles of Indictment against them
read; they were arraigned upon a Statute of their own making, and the
Letter of the Law being strong against them, and the Fact plainly proved,
they were about to pronounce Sentence, when one of the Judges mov'd, that
they should first Smoak t'other Pipe; which was accordingly done.