In the mean Time the Prize drew near, who obliged all the Prisoners to come
upon Deck in white Shirts, to make a Shew of Force, as they had been
directed by _Davis_; they also hoisted a dirty Tarpawlin, by Way of black
Flag, they having no other, and fir'd a Gun: The _French_ Men were so
intimidated by this Appearance of Force, that they struck. _Davis_ called
out to the Captain to come on Board of him, with twenty of his Hands; he
did so, and they were all for the greater Security clapt into Irons, the
Captain excepted: Then he sent four of his own Men on Board the first
Prize, and in order still to carry on the Cheat, spoke aloud, that they
should give his Service to the Captain, and desire him to send some Hands
on Board the Prize, to see what they had got; but at the same Time gave
them a written Paper, with Instructions what to do. Here he ordered them to
nail up the Guns in the little Prize, to take out all the small Arms and
Powder, and to go every Man of them on Board the second Prize; when this
was done, he ordered that more of the Prisoners should be removed out of
the great Prize, into the little one, by which he secured himself from any
Attempt which might be feared from their Numbers; for those on Board of him
were fast in Irons, and those in the little Prize had neither Arms nor
Ammunition.

Thus the three Ships kept Company for 2 Days, when finding the great Prize
to be a very dull Sailor, he thought she would not be fit for his Purpose,
wherefore he resolved to restore her to the Captain, with all his Hands;
but first, he took Care to take out all her Ammunition, and every Thing
else which he might possibly want. The _French_ Captain was in such a Rage,
at being so outwitted, that when he got on Board his own Ship, he was going
to throw himself over-board, but was prevented by his Men.

Having let go both his Prizes, he steered Northward, in which Course he
took a small _Spanish_ Sloop; after this, he made towards the _Western_
Islands, but met with no Booty thereabouts; then he steered for the _Cape
de Verde_ Islands, they cast Anchor at St. _Nicholas_, hoisting _English_
Colours; the _Portuguese_ inhabiting there, took him for an _English_
Privateer, and _Davis_ going ashore, they both treated him very civilly,
and also traded with him. Here he remained five Weeks, in which Time, he
and half his Crew, for their Pleasure, took a Journey to the chief Town of
the Island, which was 19 Miles up the Country: _Davis_ making a good
Appearance, was caressed by the Governor and the Inhabitants, and no
Diversion was wanting which the _Portuguese_ could shew, or Money could
purchase; after about a Week's Stay, he came back to the Ship, and the rest
of the Crew went to take their Pleasure up to the Town, in their Turn.

At their Return they clean'd their Ship, and put to Sea, but not with their
whole Company; for five of them, like _Hannibal_'s Men, were so charm'd
with the Luxuries of the Place, and the free Conversation of some Women,
that they staid behind; and one of them, whose Name was _Charles Franklin_,
a _Monmouthshire_ Man, married and settled himself, and lives there to this
Day.