_Evidence._ We know that _Magnes_, Quarter-Master of the Pyrate Ship,
commanded the Men in this Boat that took us, and assumed the Authority of
ordering her Provisions and Stores out, which being of different Kinds, we
soon found, were seized and sent away under more particular Directions; for
_Main_, as Boatswain of the Pyrate Ship, carried away two Cables, and
several Coils of Rope, as what belonged to his Province, beating some of
our own Men for not being brisk enough at working in the Robbery. _Petty_,
as Sail-maker, saw to the Sails and Canvas; _Harper_, as Cooper to the Cask
and Tools; _Griffin_, to the Carpenter's Stores, and _Oughterlauney_, as
Pilot, having shifted himself with a Suit of my Clothes, a new tye Wig, and
called for a Bottle of Wine, ordered the Ship, very arrogantly, to be
steered under Commadore _Robert_'s Stern, (I suppose to know what Orders
there were concerning her.) So far particularly. In the general, Sir, they
were very outragious and emulous in Mischief.

_President._ Mr. _Castel_, acquaint the Court of what you know in Relation
to this Robbery of the King _Solomon_; after what Manner the Pyrate-Boat
was dispatch'd for this Attempt.

_Tho. Castel._ I was a Prisoner, Sir, with the Pyrates when their Boat was
ordered upon that Service, and found, upon a Resolution of going, Word was
passed through the Company, Who would go? And I saw all that did, did it
voluntarily; no Compulsion, but rather pressing who should be foremost.

The Prisoners yielded to what had been sworn about the Attack and Robbery,
but denied the latter Evidence, saying, _Roberts_ hector'd, and upbraided
them of Cowardice on this very Occasion; and told some, they were very
ready to step on Board of a Prize when within Command of the Ship, but now
there seem'd to be a Tryal of their Valour, backward and fearful.

_President._ So that _Roberts_ forc'd ye upon this Attack.

_Prisoners. Roberts_ commanded us into the Boat, and the Quarter-Master to
rob the Ship; neither of whose Commands we dared to have refused.

_President._ And granting it so, those are still your own Acts, since done
by Orders from Officers of your own Election. Why would Men, honestly
disposed, give their Votes for such a Captain and such a Quarter-Master as
were every Day commanding them on distastful Services?

Here succeeded a Silence among the Prisoners, but at length _Fernon_ very
honestly own'd, that he did not give his Vote to _Magnes_, but to _David
Sympson_ (the old Quarter-Master,) _for in Truth_, says he, _I took_ Magnes
_for too honest a Man, and unfit for the Business._

The Evidence was plain and home, and the Court, without any Hesitation,
brought them in _Guilty._

W_ILLIAM Church, Phil. Haak, James White, Nich. Brattle, Hugh Riddle,
William Thomas, Tho. Roberts, Jo. Richards, Jo. Cane, R. Wood, R. Scot, Wm.
Davison, Sam. Morwell, Edward Evans, Wm. Guineys_, and 18 _French_ Men.

The four first of these Prisoners, it was evident to the Court, served as
Musick on Board the Pyrate, were forced lately from the several Merchant
Ships they belonged to; and that they had, during this Confinement, an
uneasy Life of it, having sometimes their Fiddles, and often their Heads
broke, only for excusing themselves, or saying they were tired, when any
Fellow took it in his Head to demand a Tune.