There was another Whale-Boat belonging to this Sloop last mentioned, which
happened to be at some Distance from her, and perceiving what was doing,
rowed with all speed to another Sloop not far off, to acquaint her with the
Misfortune, that the Men might take Care of themselves; and she happily got
away in Time. Some Days after, _Low_ took a Fishing-Boat off of _Block
Island_, but did not perpetrate so much Cruelty to her, contenting himself
with only cutting off the Master's Head: But after taking two Whale-Boats
near _Rhode Island_, he caused one of the Master's Bodies to be ripp'd up,
and his Intrails to be taken out; and cut off the Ears of the other, and
made him eat them himself with Pepper and Salt; which hard Injunction he
comply'd with, without making a Word. Several other Persons he would have
murthered, but Humanity prevailing in the tender Hearts of his Companions,
they refused to put his savage Orders in Execution. From the Coast of
_New-England, Low_ sailed directly for _Newfoundland_, and, near Cape
_Briton_, took two or three and twenty _French_ Vessels; and one of them of
22 Guns he mann'd with Pyrates, making a sort of a Man of War of her; with
which he scower'd the Harbours and Banks of _Newfoundland_, and took
sixteen or eighteen other Ships and Vessels, all which they plundered, and
some destroyed.

Thus these inhumane Wretches went on, who could not be contented to satisfy
their Avarice only, and travel in the common Road of Wickedness; but, like
their Patron, the Devil, must make Mischief their Sport, Cruelty their
Delight, and damning of Souls their constant Employment. Of all the
pyratical Crews that were ever heard of, none of the _English_ Name came up
to this, in Barbarity; their Mirth and their Anger had much the same
Effect, for both were usually gratified with the Cries and Groans of their
Prisoners; so that they almost as often murthered a Man from the Excess of
good Humour, as out of Passion and Resentment; and the Unfortunate could
never be assured of Safety from them, for Danger lurked in their very
Smiles. An Instance of this had liked to have happened to one Captain
_Graves_, Master of a _Virginia_ Ship last taken; for as soon as he came
aboard of the Pyrate, _Low_ takes a Bowl of Punch in his Hand, and drinks
to him, saying, _Captain_ Graves, _here's half this to you._ But the poor
Gentleman being too sensibly touched at the Misfortune of falling into his
Hands, modestly desired to be excused, for that he could not drink;
whereupon _Low_ draws out a Pistol, cocks it, and with the Bowl in 'tother
Hand, told him, he should either take one or the other: So _Graves_,
without Hesitation, made Choice of the Vehicle that contained the Punch,
and guttled down about a Quart, when he had the least Inclination that ever
he had in his Life to be merry.