Before they got to the Island of _Princes_, one of their Ships, _viz._ that
call'd the _King James_, sprung a Leak; _Davis_ order'd all Hands out of
her, on Board his own Ship, with every thing else of Use, and left her at
an Anchor at _High Cameroon_. As soon as he came in Sight of the Island, he
hoisted _English_ Colours; the _Portuguese_ observing a large Ship sailing
towards them, sent out a little Sloop to examine what she might be; this
Sloop hailing of _Davis_, he told them he was an _English_ Man of War, in
Quest of Pyrates, and that he had received Intelligence there were some
upon that Coast; upon this they received him as a welcome Guest, and
piloted him into the Harbour. He saluted the Fort, which they answered, and
he came to an Anchor just under their Guns, and hoisted out the Pinnace,
Man of War Fashion, ordering nine Hands and a Coxen in it, to row him
ashore.

The _Portugueze_, to do him the greater Honour, sent down a File of
Musqueteers to receive him, and conduct him to the Governor. The Governor
not in the least suspecting what he was, received him very civilly,
promising to supply him with whatever the Island afforded; _Davis_ thanked
him, telling him, the King of _England_ would pay for whatever he should
take; so after several Civilities pass'd between him and the Governor, he
returned again on Board.

It happened a _French_ Ship came in there to supply it self with some
Necessaries, which _Davis_ took into his Head to plunder, but to give the
Thing a Colour of Right, he persuaded the _Portugueze_, that she had been
trading with the Pyrates, and that he found several Pyrates Goods on Board,
which he seized for the King's Use: This Story passed so well upon the
Governor, that he commended _Davis_'s Diligence.

A few Days after, _Davis_, with about fourteen more, went privately ashore,
and walk'd up the Country towards a Village, where the Governor and the
other chief Men of the Island kept their Wives, in tending, as we may
suppose, to supply their Husbands Places with them; but being discovered,
the Women fled to a neighbouring Wood, and _Davis_ and the rest retreated
to their Ship, without effecting their Design: The Thing made some Noise,
but as no body knew them, it passed over.

Having cleaned his Ship, and put all Things in Order, his Thoughts now were
turned upon the main Business, _viz._ the Plunder of the Island, and not
knowing where the Treasure lay, a Stratagem came into his Head, to get it
(as he thought) with little Trouble, he consulted his Men upon it, and they
liked the Design: His Scheme was, to make a Present to the Governor, of a
Dozen Negroes, by Way of Return for the Civilities received from him, and
afterwards to invite him, with the chief Men, and some of the Friers, on
Board his Ship, to an Entertainment; the Minute they came on Board, they
were to be secured in Irons, and there kept till they should pay a Ransom
of 40000 _l._ Sterling.

But this Stratagem proved fatal to him, for a _Portugueze_ Negroe swam
ashore in the Night, and discovered the whole Plot to the Governor, and
also let him know, that it was _Davis_ who had made the Attempt upon their
Wives. However, the Governor dissembled, received the Pyrates Invitation
civilly, and promised that he and the rest would go.