Upon this Coast our Rovers cruiz'd for about nine Weeks, keeping generally
out of Sight of Land, but without seeing a Sail, which discourag'd them so,
that they determined to leave the Station, and steer for the _West-Indies_,
and in order thereto, stood in to make the Land for the taking of their
Departure, and thereby they fell in, unexpectedly, with a Fleet of 42 Sail
of _Portuguese_ Ships, off the Bay of _los todos Santos_, with all their
Lading in for _Lisbon_, several of them of good Force, who lay too waiting
for two Men of War of 70 Guns each, their Convoy. However, _Roberts_
thought it should go hard with him, but he would make up his Market among
them, and thereupon mix'd with the Fleet, and kept his Men hid till proper
Resolutions could be form'd; that done, they came close up to one of the
deepest, and ordered her to send the Master on Board quietly, threat'ning
to give them no Quarters, if any Resistance, or Signal of Distress was
made. The _Portuguese_ being surprized at these Threats, and the sudden
flourish of Cutlashes from the Pyrates, submitted without a Word, and the
Captain came on Board; _Roberts_ saluted him after a friendly manner,
telling him, that they were Gentlemen of Fortune, but that their Business
with him, was only to be informed which was the richest Ship in that Fleet;
and if he directed them right, he should be restored to his Ship without
Molestation, otherwise, he must expect immediate Death.

Whereupon this _Portuguese_ Master pointed to one of 40 Guns, and 150 Men,
a Ship of greater Force than the _Rover_, but this no Ways dismayed them,
_they were_ Portuguese, they said, and so immediately steered away for him.
When they came within Hail, the Master whom they had Prisoner, was ordered
to ask, _how Seignior Capitain did_? And to invite him on Board, _for that
he had a Matter of Consequence to impart to him_, which being done, he
returned for Answer, _That he would wait upon him presently_: But by the
Bustle that immediately followed, the Pyrates perceived, they were
discovered, and that this was only a deceitful Answer to gain Time to put
their Ship in a Posture of Defence; so without further Delay, they poured
in a Broad-Side, boarded and grapled her; the Dispute was short and warm,
wherein many of the _Portuguese_ fell, and two only of the Pyrates. By this
Time the Fleet was alarmed, Signals of Top-gallant Sheets flying, and Guns
fired, to give Notice to the Men of War, who rid still at an Anchor, and
made but scurvy hast out to their Assistance; and if what the Pyrates
themselves related, be true, the Commanders of those Ships were blameable
to the highest Degree, and unworthy the Title, or so much as the Name of
Men: For _Roberts_ finding the Prize to sail heavy, and yet resolving not
to loose her, lay by for the headmost of them _(_which much out sailed the
other) and prepared for Battle, which was ignominiously declined, tho' of
such superior Force; for not daring to venture on the Pyrate alone, he
tarried so long for his Consort as gave them both time leisurely to make
off.

They found this Ship exceeding rich, being laden chiefly with Sugar, Skins,
and Tobacco, and in Gold 40000 Moidors, besides Chains and Trinckets, of
considerable Value; particularly a Cross set with Diamonds, designed for
the King of _Portugal_; which they afterwards presented to the Governor of
_Caiana_, by whom they were obliged.