Another great Difficulty in their Proceedings, was, how to understand those
Words in the Act of Parliament, of, _particularly specifying in the Charge,
the Circumstances of Time, Place_, &c. _i. e._ so to understand them, as to
be able to hold a Court; for if they had been indicted on particular
Robberies, the Evidence had happened mostly from the Royal _African_
Company's Ships, on which these Gentlemen of _Cape-Corso-Castle_, were not
qualify'd to sit, their Oath running, _That they have no Interest directly,
or indirectly, in the Ship, or Goods, for the Robbery of which, the Party
stands accused_: And this they thought they had, Commissions being paid
them, on such Goods: And on the other Side, if they were incapacitated, no
Court could be formed, the Commission absolutely requiring three of them by
Name.

To reconcile all Things, therefore, the Court resolved, to bottom the whole
of their Proceedings on the _Swallow's_ Depositions, which were clear and
plain, and had the Circumstance of Time when, Place where, Manner how, and
the like, particularly specified according to the Statute in that Case
made, and provided. But this admitted only a general Intimation of Robbery
in the Indictment, therefore _to approve their Clemency_, it looking
Arbitrary on the Lives of Men, to lump them to the Gallows, in such a
summary Way as must have been done, had they solely adhered to the
_Swallow_'s Charge, they resolved to come to particular Tryals.

Secondly, _That the Prisoners might not be ignorant whereon to answer_, and
so have all fair Advantages, to excuse and defend themselves; the Court
farther agreed with Justice and Equanimity, to hear any Evidence that could
be brought, to weaken or corroborate the three Circumstances that compleat
a Pyrate; first, being a Voluntier amongst them at the Beginning; secondly,
being a Voluntier at the taking or robbing of any Ship; or lastly,
voluntarily accepting a Share in the Booty of those that did; for by a
Parity of Reason, where these Actions were of their own disposing, and yet
committed by them, it must be believed their Hearts and Hands joyned
together, in what they acted against his Majesty's Ship the _Swallow._

_The_ TRYALS _of the_ PYRATES,

_Taken by his Majesty's Ship the_ Swallow, _begun at Cape_
Corso-Castle, _on the Coast of_ Africa, March _the_ 28_th_, 1722.

THE Commission impowered any three named therein, to call to their
Assistance, such a Number of qualified Persons as might make the Court
always consist of seven: And accordingly Summons were signed to Lieut. _Jo.
Barnsley_, Lieut. _Ch. Fanshaw_, Capt. _Samuel Hartsease_, and Capt.
_William Menzies, viz._

BY Virtue of a Power and Authority, to us given, by a
   Commission from the King, under the Seal of Admiralty,
   You are hereby required to attend, and make one of the
   Court, for the trying and adjudging of the Pyrates,
   lately taken on this Coast, by his Majesty's Ship the
   _Swallow._

Given under our Hands this 28th of _March_, 1722, at Cape
_Carso-Castle._

_Mungo Heardman_, _James Phips_, _Henry Dodson_, _Francis Boy_,
_Edward Hide._

The Commissioners being met in the Hall of the Castle, the Commission was
first read, after which, the President, and then the other Members, took
the Oath, prescribed in the Act of Parliament, and having directed the Form
of that for Witnesses, as follows, the Court was opened.