At this Time the Pyrate had a considerable Advantage; for their Sloop,
after she was a-ground, listed from Colonel _Rhet_'s, by which Means they
were all covered, and the Colonel's Sloop listing the same Way, his Men
were much exposed; notwithstanding which, they kept a brisk Fire the whole
Time they lay thus a-ground, which was near five Hours. The Pyrates made a
Wiff in their bloody Flag, and beckoned several Times with their Hats in
Derision to the Colonel's Men, to come on Board, which they answered with
chearful Huzza's, and said, _that they would speak with them by and by_;
which accordingly happened, for the Colonel's Sloop being first a float, he
got into deeper Water, and after mending the Sloop's Rigging, which was
much shattered in the Engagement, they stood for the Pyrate, to give the
finishing Stroke, and designed to go directly on Board him; which he
prevented, by sending a Flag of Truce, and after some Time capitulating,
they surrendered themselves Prisoners. The Colonel took Possession of the
Sloop, and was extreamly pleased to find that Captain _Thomas_, who
commanded her, was the individual Person of Major _Stede Bonnet_, who had
done them the Honour several Times to visit their own Coast of _Carolina_.

There were killed in this Action, on Board the _Henry_, ten Men, and
fourteen wounded; on Board the _Sea Nymph_, two killed and four wounded.
The Officers and Sailors in both Sloops behaved themselves with the
greatest Bravery; and had not the Sloops so unluckily run a-ground, they
had taken the Pyrate with much less loss of Men; but as he designed to get
by them, and so make a running Fight, the _Carolina_ Sloops were obliged to
keep near him, to prevent his getting away. Of the Pyrates there were seven
killed and five wounded, two of which died soon after of their Wounds.
Colonel _Rhet_ weigh'd the 30th of _September_, from Cape _Fear_ River, and
arrived at _Charles-Town_ the 3d of _October_, to the great Joy of the
whole Province of _Carolina_.

_Bonnet_ and his Crew, two Days after, were put ashore, and there not being
a publick Prison, the Pyrates were kept at the Watch-House, under a Guard
of Militia; but Major _Bonnet_ was committed into the Custody of the
Marshal, at his House; and in a few Days after, _David Hariot_ the Master,
and _Ignatius Pell_ the Boatswain, who were designed for Evidences against
the other Pyrates, were removed from the rest of the Crew, to the said
Marshal's House, and every Night two Centinals set about the said House;
but whether thro' any Corruption, or want of Care in guarding the
Prisoners, I can't say; but on the 24th of _October_, the Major and
_Hariot_ made their Escape, the Boatswain refusing to go along with them.
This made a great Noise in the Province, and People were open in their
Resentments, often reflecting on the Governor, and others in the
Magistracy, as tho' they had been brib'd, for conniving at their Escape.
These Invectives arose from their Fears, that _Bonnet_ would be capable of
raising another Company, and prosecute his Revenge against this Country,
for what he had lately, tho' justly, suffered: But they were in a short
Time made easy in those Respects; for as soon as the Governor had the
Account of _Bonnet_'s Escape, he immediately issued out a Proclamation, and
promised a Reward of 700 Pounds to any that would take him, and sent
several Boats with armed Men, both to the Northward and Southward, in
pursuit of him.