He guessed where they were, and sent some of his Men on Shore to let them
know they were Friends, and to offer they might join together for their
common Safety; the Sloops Men were well arm'd, and had posted themselves in
a Wood, with Centinels just on the out-side, to observe whether the Ship
landed her Men to pursue them, and they observing only two or three Men to
come towards them without Arms, did not oppose them, but having challenged
them, and they answering they were Friends, they lead them to their Body,
where they delivered their Message; at first, they apprehended it was a
Stratagem to decoy them on Board, but when the Ambassadors offered that the
Captain himself, and as many of the Crew as they should name, would meet
them on Shore without Arms, they believed them to be in Earnest, and they
soon entered into a Confidence with one another; those on Board going on
Shore, and some of those on Shore going on Board.

The Sloops Men were rejoiced at the new Ally, for their Vessels were so
small, that they could not attack a Ship of any Force, so that hitherto
they had not taken any considerable Prize, but now they hop'd to fly at
high Game; and _Avery_ was as well pleased at this Reinforcement, to
strengthen them, for any brave Enterprize, and tho' the Booty must be
lessened to each, by being divided into so many Shares, yet he found out an
Expedient not to suffer by it himself as shall be shewn in its Place.

Having consulted what was to be done, they resolved to sail out together
upon a Cruize, the Galley and two Sloops; they therefore fell to work to
get the Sloops off, which they soon effected, and steered towards the
_Arabian_ Coast; near the River _Indus_, the Man at the Mast-Head spied a
Sail, upon which they gave Chace, and as they came nearer to her, they
perceived her to be a tall Ship, and fancied she might be a _Dutch
East-India_ Man homeward bound; but she proved a better Prize; when they
fired at her to bring too, she hoisted _Mogul_'s Colours, and seemed to
stand upon her Defence; _Avery_ only canonaded at a Distance, and some of
his Men began to suspect that he was not the Hero they took him for:
However, the Sloops made Use of their Time, and coming one on the Bow, and
the other on the Quarter, of the Ship, clapt her on Board, and enter'd her,
upon which she immediately struck her Colours and yielded; she was one of
the _Great Mogul_'s own Ships, and there were in her several of the
greatest Persons of his Court, among whom it was said was one of his
Daughters, who were going on a Pilgrimage to _Mecca_, the _Mahometans_
thinking themselves obliged once in their Lives to visit that Place, and
they were carrying with them rich Offerings to present at the Shrine of
_Mahomet_. It is known that the Eastern People travel with the utmost
Magnificence, so that they had with them all their Slaves and Attendants,
their rich Habits and Jewels, with Vessels of Gold and Silver, and great
Sums of Money to defray the Charges of their Journey by Land; wherefore the
Plunder got by this Prize, is not easily computed.