From hence the Rovers sailed to _Turkill_, and then to the _Grand
Caimanes_, a small Island about thirty Leagues to the Westward of
_Jamaica_, where they took a small Turtler, and so to the _Havana_, and
from thence to the _Bahama_ Wrecks, and from the _Bahama_ Wrecks, they
sailed to _Carolina_, taking a Brigantine and two Sloops in their Way,
where they lay off the Bar of _Charles-Town_ for five or six Days. They
took here a Ship as she was coming out, bound for London, commanded by
_Robert Clark_, with some Passengers on Board for _England_; the next Day
they took another Vessel coming out of _Charles-Town_, and also two Pinks
coming into _Charles-Town_; likewise a Brigantine with 14 Negroes aboard;
all which being done in the Face of the Town, struck a great Terror to the
whole Province of _Carolina_, having just before been visited by _Vane_,
another notorious Pyrate, that they abandoned themselves to Dispair, being
in no Condition to resist their Force. They were eight Sail in the Harbour,
ready for the Sea, but none dared to venture out, it being almost
impossible to escape their Hands. The inward bound Vessels were under the
same unhappy Dilemma, so that the Trade of this Place was totally
interrupted: What made these Misfortunes heavier to them, was a long
expensive War, the Colony had had with the Natives, which was but just
ended when these Robbers infested them.

_Teach_ detained all the Ships and Prisoners, and, being in want of
Medicines, resolves to demand a Chest from the Government of the Province;
accordingly _Richards_, the Captain of the _Revenge_ Sloop, with two or
three more Pyrates, were sent up along with Mr. _Marks_, one of the
Prisoners, whom they had taken in _Clark_'s Ship, and very insolently made
their Demands, threatning, that if they did not send immediately the Chest
of Medicines, and let the Pyrate-Ambassadors return, without offering any
Violence to their Persons, they would murder all their Prisoners, send up
their Heads to the Governor, and set the Ships they had taken on Fire.

Whilst Mr. _Marks_ was making Application to the Council, _Richards_, and
the rest of the Pyrates, walk'd the Streets publickly, in the Sight of all
People, who were fired with the utmost Indignation, looking upon them as
Robbers and Murtherers, and particularly the Authors of their Wrongs and
Oppressions, but durst not so much as think of executing their Revenge, for
fear of bringing more Calamities upon themselves, and so they were forced
to let the Villains pass with Impunity. The Government were not long in
deliberating upon the Message, tho' 'twas the greatest Affront that could
have been put upon them; yet for the saving so many Mens Lives, (among
them, Mr. _Samuel Wragg_, one of the Council;) they comply'd with the
Necessity, and sent aboard a Chest, valued at between 3 and 400 _l._ and
the Pyrates went back safe to their Ships.

_Blackbeard_, (for so _Teach_ was generally called, as we shall hereafter
shew) as soon as he had received the Medicines and his Brother Rogues, let
go the Ships and the Prisoners; having first taken out of them in Gold and
Silver, about 1500 _l._ Sterling, besides Provisions and other Matters.