The young Fellow, who was made of Flesh and Blood, had his Curiosity and
Desire so rais'd by this Sight, that he never ceased importuning her, till
she confessed what she was. Now begins the Scene of Love; as he had a
Liking and Esteem for her, under her supposed Character, it was now turn'd
into Fondness and Desire; her Passion was no less violent than his, and
perhaps she express'd it, by one of the most generous Actions that ever
Love inspired. It happened this young Fellow had a Quarrel with one of the
Pyrates, and their Ship then lying at an Anchor, near one of the Islands,
they had appointed to go ashore and fight, according to the Custom of the
Pyrates: _Mary Read_, was to the last Degree uneasy and anxious, for the
Fate of her Lover; she would not have had him refuse the Challenge,
because, she could not bear the Thoughts of his being branded with
Cowardise; on the other Side, she dreaded the Event, and apprehended the
Fellow might be too hard for him: When Love once enters into the Breast of
one who has any Sparks of Generosity, it stirs the Heart up to the most
noble Actions; in this Dilemma, she shew'd, that she fear'd more for his
Life than she did for her own; for she took a Resolution of quarreling with
this Fellow her self, and having challenged him ashore, she appointed the
Time two Hours sooner than that when he was to meet her Lover, where she
fought him at Sword and Pistol, and killed him upon the Spot.

It is true, she had fought before, when she had been insulted by some of
those Fellows, but now it was altogether in her Lover's Cause, she stood as
it were betwixt him and Death, as if she could not live without him. If he
had no regard for her before, this Action would have bound him to her for
ever; but there was no Occasion for Ties or Obligations, his Inclination
towards her was sufficient; in fine, they applied their Troth to each
other, which _Mary Read_ said, she look'd upon to be as good a Marriage, in
Conscience, as if it had been done by a Minister in Church; and to this was
owing her great Belly, which she pleaded to save her Life.

She declared she had never committed Adultery or Fornication with any Man,
she commended the Justice of the Court, before which she was tried, for
distinguishing the Nature of their Crimes; her Husband, as she call'd him,
with several others, being acquitted; and being ask'd, who he was? she
would not tell, but, said he was an honest Man, and had no Inclination to
such Practices, and that they had both resolved to leave the Pyrates the
first Opportunity, and apply themselves to some honest Livelyhood.