E_Dward England_ went Mate of a Sloop that sail'd out of _Jamaica_,
and was taken by Captain _Winter_, a Pyrate, just before their Settlement
at _Providence_; from whence _England_ had the Command of a Sloop in the
same laudable Employment: It is surprizing that Men of good Understanding
should engage in a Course of Life, that so much debases humane Nature, and
sets them upon a Level with the wild Beasts of the Forest, who live and
prey upon their weaker Fellow Creatures: A Crime so enormous! That it
includes almost all others, as Murder, Rapine, Theft, Ingratitude, _&c._
and tho' they make these Vices familiar to them by their daily Practice,
yet these Men are so inconsistent with themselves, that a Reflection made
upon their Honour, their Justice, or their Courage, is look'd upon as an
Offence that ought to be punished with the Life of him that commits it:
_England_ was one of these Men, who seem'd to have such a Share of Reason,
as should have taught him better Things. He had a great deal of good
Nature, and did not want for Courage; he was not avaritious, and always
averse to the ill Usage Prisoners received: He would have been contented
with moderate Plunder, and less mischievous Pranks, could his Companions
have been brought to the same Temper, but he was generally over-rul'd, and
as he was engaged in that abominable Society, he was obliged to be a
Partner in all their vile Actions.

Captain _England_ sail'd to the Coast of _Africa_, after the Island of
_Providence_ was settled by the _English_ Government, and the Pyrates
surrendered to his Majesty's Proclamation; and took several Ships and
Vessels, particularly the _Cadogan_ Snow belonging to _Bristol_, at
_Sierraleone_, one _Skinner_ Master, who was inhumanly murthered by some of
the Crew, that had lately been his own Men, and served in the said Vessel.
It seems some Quarrel had happened between them, so that _Skinner_ thought
fit to remove these Fellows on Board of a Man of War, and at the same Time
refused them their Wages; not long after they found Means to desert that
Service, and shipping themselves aboard a Sloop in the _West-Indies_, was
taken by a Pyrate, and brought to _Providence_, and sailed upon the same
Account along with Captain _England_.

Assoon as _Skinner_ had struck to the Pyrate, he was ordered to come on
Board in his Boat, which he did, and the Person that he first cast his Eye
upon, proved to be his old Boatswain, who star'd him in the Face like his
evil Genius, and accosted him in this Manner.-- _Ah, Captain_ Skinner! _Is
it you? The only Man I wished to see; I am much in your Debt, and now I
shall pay you all in your own Coin_.