As soon as she miss'd him, she gave over her Search, concluding he had
carried them off, and went directly to the Constable, in order to have him
apprehended: The young Man was informed, that a Constable had been in
Search of him, but he regarded it but little, not doubting but all would be
well next Day. Three or four Days passed, and still he was told, the
Constable was upon the Hunt for him, this made him lye concealed, he could
not comprehend the Meaning of it, he imagined no less, than that the Maid
had a Mind to convert the Spoons to her own Use, and put the Robbery upon
him.

It happened, at this Time, that the Mistress being perfectly recovered of
her late Indisposition, was return'd Home, in Company with her
Mother-in-Law; the first News she heard, was of the Loss of the Spoons,
with the Manner how; the Maid telling her, at the same Time, that the young
Man was run away. The young Fellow had Intelligence of the Mistress's
Arrival, and considering with himself, that he could never appear again in
his Business, unless this Matter was got over, and she being a good natured
Woman, he took a Resolution of going directly to her, and of telling her
the whole Story, only with this Difference, that he did it for a Jest.

The Mistress could scarce believe it, however, she went directly to the
Maid's Room, and turning down the Bed Cloaths, there, to her great
Surprize, found the three Spoons; upon this she desired the young Man to go
Home and mind his Business, for he should have no Trouble about it.

The Mistress could not imagine the Meaning of this, she never had found the
Maid guilty of any pilfering, and therefore it could not enter her Head,
that she designed to steal the Spoons her self; upon the whole, she
concluded the Maid had not been in her Bed, from the Time the Spoons were
miss'd, she grew immediately jealous upon it, and suspected, that the Maid
supplied her Place with her Husband, during her Absence, and this was the
Reason why the Spoons were no sooner found.

She call'd to Mind several Actions of Kindness, her Husband had shewed the
Maid, Things that pass'd unheeded by, when they happened, but now she had
got that Tormentor, Jealousy, in her Head, amounted to Proofs of their
Intimacy; another Circumstance which strengthen'd the whole, was, that tho'
her Husband knew she was to come Home that Day, and had had no
Communication with her in four Months, which was before her last Lying in,
yet he took an Opportunity of going out of Town that Morning, upon some
slight Pretence: --All these Things put together, confirm'd her in her
Jealousy.