As soon as _Massey_ received this Letter, he went to the Soldiers at the
_Barracks_, and said to them, and others, _You that have a Mind to go to_
England, _now is your Time_; and they generally consenting, _Massey_ went
to the Store-Room, burst open the Door, set two Centinels upon it, and
ordered that no Body should come near it; then he went to the Governor's
Apartment, and took his Bed, Baggage, Plate and Furniture, (in Expectation
that the Governor himself, as he had promised _Massey_, would have gone on
Board, which he afterwards refused, by Reason, as he said, he believed they
were going a-pyrating; which at first, whatever _Lowther_ designed,
_Massey_ certainly proposed only the going to _England_;) when this was
done, he sent the Boat off to the chief Mate, with this Message, _That he
should get the Guns ready, for that the King of_ Barro [a Negro Kingdom
near the Royal _African_ Settlement] _would come aboard to Dinner._ But
_Lowther_ understanding best, the meaning of those Orders, he confined the
chief Mate, shotted the Guns, and put the Ship in a Condition for sailing.
In the Afternoon _Massey_ came on Board with the Governor's Son, having
sent off all the Provisions of the Island, and eleven Pipes of Wine,
leaving only two half Pipes behind in the Store-House, and dismounted all
the Guns of the Fort.

In the Afternoon they weigh'd one Anchor, but fearing to be too late to get
out of the River, they slipp'd the other, and so fell down; in doing of
which, they run the Ship a-ground. _Massey_ shew'd himself a Soldier upon
this Accident, for as soon as the Misfortune happen'd, he left the Ship
with about sixteen Hands, and rows directly to the Fort, remounts the Guns,
and keeps Garrison there all the Night, while the Ship was ashore; and
obliged some of the Factory to assist in getting her clear. In the mean
while, _Russel_ came off, but not being suffered to come on Board, he
call'd to _Lowther_, and offered him and the Company, whatever Terms they
would be pleased to accept of, upon Condition of surrendering up the Ship,
which had no Effect upon any of them. In the Morning they got her afloat,
and _Massey_ and his Men came aboard, after having nailed up and dismounted
all the Cannon of the Fort: They put the Governor's Son, and two or three
others ashore, who were not willing to go without the Governor, and sail'd
out of the River, having exchanged several Shot with the _Martha, Otter,
&c._ that lay there, without doing Execution on either Side.