For the better elucidating of this Story, it may be convenient to inform
the Reader, who _Angria_ is, and what the Fleet were, that had so scurvily
behaved themselves.

_Angria_ is a famous _Indian_ Pyrate, of considerable Strength and
Territories, that gives continual Disturbance to the _European_ (and
especially the _English_) Trade: His chief Hold is _Callaba_, not many
Leagues from _Bombay_, and has one Island in Sight of that Port, whereby he
gains frequent Opportunities of annoying the Company. It would not be so
insuperable a Difficulty to suppress him, if the Shallowness of the Water
did not prevent Ships of War coming nigh: And a better Art he has, of
bribing the _Mogul_'s Ministers for Protection, when he finds an Enemy too
powerful.

In the Year 1720, the _Bombay_ Fleet consisting of four _Grabbs, (Ships
built in_ India _by the Company, and have three Masts, a Prow like a
Row-Galley, instead of a Boltsprit, about_ 150 _Tons; are officered and
armed like a Man of War, for Defence and Protection of the Trade,)_ the
_London, Chandois_, and two other Ships with Gallivats, who besides their
proper Compliments, carried down 1000 Men to bombard and batter _Gayra_, a
Fort belonging to _Angria_, on the _Malabar_ Coast, which they having
performed ineffectually, were returning to _Bombay_, and, to make amends,
fell in with the Pyrates, to the Purpose has been already related. Captain
_Upton_, Commadore of that Fleet, prudently objecting to Mr. _Brown_, (who
went General,) That the Ships were not to be hazarded, since they sailed
without their Governor _Boon_'s Orders to engage; and besides, that they
did not come out with such a Design. This favourable Opportunity of
destroying the Pyrates, angered the Governor, and he transferred the
Command of the Fleet to Captain _Mackra_, who had Orders immediately to
pursue and engage, where ever he met them.

The Vice-Roy of _Goa_, assisted by the _English_ Company's Fleet from
_Bombay_, did attempt the Reduction of _Callaba_, his principal Place,
landed 8 or 10000 Men the next Year, the _English_ Squadron of Men of War
being then in those Seas; but having viewed the Fortification well, and
expended some of their Army by Sickness and the Fatigues of a Camp,
carefully withdrew again.