The _Eagle_ Pink being bound to _Jamaica_, the _Sarah_ to _Virginia_, and
the _Buck_ to _Maryland_, they let them go, but the _Charlotte_, the
_Bentworth_, the _Carteret_, and the _Coward_ Galley, they burnt; and the
_Mercury_, and the _Elizabeth_ and _Katherine_ were fitted up for Pyrate
Ships, the former was new nam'd _Queen Ann_'s _Revenge_, and commanded by
one _Lane_, and the other was call'd the _Flying King_, of which _Robert
Sample_ was appointed Captain. These two left _England_ upon the Coast,
sail'd to the _West-Indies_, where they took some Prizes, clean'd, and
sail'd to _Brasil_ in _November_; they took several _Portuguese_ Ships
there, and did a great deal of Mischief, but in the height of their
Undertakings, a _Portuguese_ Man of War, which was an excellent Sailor,
came a very unwelcome Guest to them, and gave them Chace; the Queen _Ann's
Revenge_ got off, but was lost a little while after upon that Coast; and
the _Flying King_, giving herself over for lost, ran ashore: There were
then 70 Men on Board, 12 of which were kill'd, and the rest taken
Prisoners, of whom the _Portuguese_ hang'd 38, of which 32 were _English_,
three _Dutch_, two _French_, and one of their own Nation.

_England_, in going down the Coast, took the _Peterborough_ Galley of
_Bristol_, Captain _Owen_; and the _Victory_, Captain _Ridout_; the former
they detained, but plundered the latter, and let her go. In _Cape Corso_
Road, they saw two Sail at Anchor, but before they could reach them, they
slipp'd their Cables and got close under _Cape Corso Castle_, these were
the _Whydah_, Captain _Prince_, and the _John_, Captain _Rider_: The
Pyrates upon this made a fire Ship of a Vessel they had lately taken, and
attempted to burn them, as tho' they had been a common Enemy, which if
effected, they could not have been one Farthing the better for it; but the
Castle firing warmly upon them, they withdrew, and sail'd down to _Whydah_
Road, where they found another Pyrate, one Captain _la Bouche_, who getting
thither before _England_ arrived, had forestall'd the Market, and greatly
disappointed their Brethren.

Captain _England_, after this Baulk, went into a Harbour, clean'd his own
Ship, and fitted up the _Peterborough_, which he call'd the _Victory_; they
liv'd there very wantonly for several Weeks, making free with the Negroe
Women, and committing such outragious Acts, that they came to an open
Rupture with the Natives, several of whom they kill'd, and one of their
Towns they set on Fire.

When the Pyrates came out to Sea, they put it to a Vote what Voyage to
take, and the Majority carrying it for the _East-Indies_, they shap'd their
Course accordingly, and arrived at _Madagascar_, the Beginning of the Year
1720. They staid not long there, but after taking in Water and Provisions,
sail'd for the Coast of _Malabar_, which is a fine fruitful Country in the
_East-Indies_, in the Empire of the _Mogul_, but immediately subject to its
own Princes: It reaches from the Coast of _Canara_ to _Cape Camorin_, which
is between 7° 30, and 12° North Lattitude, and in about 75° East Longitude,
counting from the Meridian of _London_. The old Natives are Pagans, but
there are a great Number of _Mahometans_ inhabiting among them, who are
Merchants, and generally rich. On the same Coast, but in a Province to the
Northward lies _Goa, Surat, Bombay_, where the _English, Dutch_, and
_Portuguese_ have Settlements.