_Low_ set the Masters of the Vessels free, but would not suffer them to
steer for _Jamaica_, where they were then bound, for fear the Men of War
should get Intelligence of them, but forced them all to go to _New-York_,
threat'ning them with Death, when they met them again, if they refused to
comply with their Demands.

In the next Cruize, which was between the Leeward Islands and the Main,
they took two Snows, bound from _Jamaica_ to _Liverpool_, and a Snow from
_Jamaica_ to _London, Bridds_ Master; as also a Ship from _Biddford_ to
_Jamaica, John Pinkham_ Commander; and two Sloops from _Jamaica_ to
_Virginia._

On the 27th of _May, Low_ and his Consort _Harris_, came off
_South-Carolina_, and met with three good Ships, _viz._ the _Crown_,
Captain _Lovereigne_, the _King William_, the _Carteret_, and a Brigantine,
who all came out of _Carolina_ together two Days before. The Pyrates were
at the Trouble of chacing them, and Captain _Lovereigne_ being the
sternmost, she fell first a Prey into their Hands; and they spent all the
Day in coming up with the rest.

Within a few Days they took a Ship called the _Amsterdam Merchant_, Captain
_Willard_, from _Jamaica_, but belonging to _New-England_; as _Low_ let
none of that Country depart without some Marks of his Rage, he cut off this
Gentleman's Ears, slit up his Nose, and cut him in several Places of his
Body, and, after plundering his Ship, let him pursue his Voyage.

After this he took a Sloop bound to _Amboy, William Frazier_, Master, with
whom Mr. _Low_ happening to be displeased, he ordered lighted Matches to be
ty'd between the Mens Fingers, which burnt all the Flesh off the Bones;
then cut them in several Parts of their Bodies with Knives and Cutlashes;
afterwards took all their Provisions away, and set some of them ashore in
an uninhabited Part of the Country.

The _Kingston_, Captain _Estwick_, another Ship, one _Burrington_ Master,
two Brigantines from _Carolina_ to _London_; a Sloop from _Virginia_ to
_Bermudas_; a Ship from _Glasgow_ to _Virginia_; a Scooner from _New-York_
to _South-Carolina_; a Pink from _Virginia_ to _Dartmouth_, and a Sloop
from _Philadelphia_ to _Surinam_, fell a Prey to these Villains, upon this
Cruize, besides those above-mentioned.