After they had done as much Mischief as they could, and were weighing
Anchor to be gone, they spy'd a Ship bearing down upon them in full Sail;
they soon got their Anchor's up, and were in a Readiness to receive her.
This Ship prov'd to be a _French_ Pyrate of fourteen Guns and sixty four
Hands, half _French_, half Negroes; the Captain's Name was _La Bouse_; he
expected no less than a rich Prize, which made him so eager in the Chace;
but when he came near enough to see their Guns, and the Number of their
Hands upon Deck, he began to think he should catch a _Tartar_, and supposed
her to be a small _English_ Man of War; however, since there was no
escaping, he resolved to do a bold and desperate Action, which was to board
_Davis_. As he was making towards her, for this Purpose, he fired a Gun,
and hoisted his black Colours; _Davis_ returned the Salute, and hoisted his
black Colours also. The _French_ Man was not a little pleased at this happy
Mistake; they both hoisted out their Boats, and the Captains went to meet
and congratulate one another with a Flag of Truce in their Sterns; a great
many Civilities passed between them, and _La Bouse_ desired _Davis_, that
they might sail down the Coast together, that he _(La Bouse)_ might get a
better Ship: _Davis_ agreed to it, and very courteously promised him the
first Ship he took, fit for his Use, he would give him, as being willing to
encourage a willing Brother.

The first Place they touch'd at, was _Sierraleon_, where at first going in,
they spied a tall Ship at Anchor; _Davis_ being the best Sailor first came
up with her, and wondering that she did not try to make off, suspected her
to be a Ship of Force. As soon as he came along Side of her, she brought a
Spring upon her Cable, and fired a whole Broadside upon _Davis_, at the
same Time hoisted a black Flag; _Davis_ hoisted his black Flag in like
Manner, and fired one Gun to Leeward.

In fine, she proved to be a Pyrate Ship of twenty four Guns, commanded by
one _Cocklyn_, who expecting these two would prove Prizes, let them come
in, least his getting under Sail might frighten them away.

This Satisfaction was great on all Sides, at this Junction of Confederates
and Brethren in Iniquity; two Days they spent in improving their
Acquaintance and Friendship, the third Day _Davis_ and _Cocklyn_, agreed to
go in _La Bouse_'s Brigantine and attack the Fort; they contrived it so, as
to get up thither by high Water; those in the Fort suspected them to be
what they really were, and therefore stood upon their Defence; when the
Brigantine came within Musket-Shot, the Fort fired all their Guns upon her,
the Brigantine did the like upon the Fort, and so held each other in Play
for several Hours, when the two confederate Ships were come up to the
Assistance of the Brigantine; those who defended the Fort, seeing such a
Number of Hands on Board these Ships, had not the Courage to stand it any
longer, but abandoning the Fort, left it to the Mercy of the Pyrates.