Captain _George Dew_ and Captain _Thomas Tew_, having received Commissions
from the then Governor of _Bermudas_, to sail directly for the River
_Gambia_ in _Africa_; there, with the Advice and Assistance of the Agents
of the Royal _African_ Company, to attempt the taking the _French_ Factory
at _Goorie_, lying upon that Coast. In a few Days after they sailed out,
_Dew_ in a violent Storm, not only sprung his Mast, but lost Sight of his
Consort; _Dew_ therefore returned back to refit, and _Tew_ instead of
proceeding on his Voyage, made for the _Cape of Good Hope_, and doubling
the said Cape, shaped his Course for the Straits of _Babel Mandel_, being
the Entrance into the _Red Sea_. Here he came up with a large Ship, richly
laden, bound from the _Indies_ to _Arabia_, with three hundred Soldiers on
Board, besides Seamen; yet _Tew_ had the Hardiness to board her, and soon
carried her; and, 'tis said, by this Prize, his Men shared near three
thousand Pounds a Piece: They had Intelligence from the Prisoners, of five
other rich Ships to pass that Way, which _Tew_ would have attacked, tho'
they were very strong, if he had not been over-ruled by the Quarter-Master
and others.--This differing in Opinion created some ill Blood amongst them,
so that they resolved to break up pyrating, and no Place was so fit to
receive them as _Madagascar_; hither they steered, resolving to live on
Shore and enjoy what they got.

As for _Tew_ himself, he with a few others in a short Time went off to
_Rhode Island_, from whence he made his Peace.

Thus have we accounted for the Company our Pyrates met with here.

It must be observed that the Natives of _Madagascar_ are a kind of Negroes,
they differ from those of _Guiney_ in their Hair, which is long, and their
Complexion is not so good a Jet; they have innumerable little Princes among
them, who are continually making War upon one another; their Prisoners are
their Slaves, and they either sell them, or put them to death, as they
please: When our Pyrates first settled amongst them, their Alliance was
much courted by these Princes, so they sometimes joined one, sometimes
another, but wheresoever they sided, they were sure to be Victorious; for
the Negroes here had no Fire-Arms, nor did they understand their Use; so
that at length these Pyrates became so terrible to the Negroes, that if two
or or three of them were only seen on one Side, when they were going to
engage, the opposite Side would fly without striking a Blow.