Some of the Foreigners, who never had Dealing this Way before, desired for
Satisfaction to their Owners, that they might have Receipts for their
Money, which were accordingly given, a Copy of one of them, I have here
subjoined, _viz._

* * *

T_HIS is to certify whom it may or doth concern, that we_ GENTLEMEN
OF FORTUNE, _have received eight Pounds of Gold-Dust, for the Ransom of
the_ Hardey, _Captain_ Dittwitt _Commander, so that we Discharge the said
Ship_,

_Witness our Hands, this_ 13_th of_ Jan. 1721-2.

Batt. Roberts, Harry Glasby.

Others were given to the _Portuguese_ Captains, which were in the same
Form, but being sign'd by two waggish Fellows, _viz. Sutton_, and
_Sympson_, they subscribed by the Names of,

_Aaron Whifflingpin_, _Sim. Tugmutton._

But there was something so singularly cruel and barbarous done here to the
_Porcupine_, Captain _Fletcher_, as must not be passed over without special
Remark.

This Ship lay in the Road, almost slaved, when the Pyrates came in, and the
Commander being on Shore, settling his Accounts, was sent to for the
Ransom, but he excused it, as having no Orders from the Owners; though the
true Reason might be, that he thought it dishonourable to treat with
Robbers; and that the Ship, separate from the Slaves, towards whom he could
mistrust no Cruelty, was not worth the Sum demanded; hereupon, _Roberts_
sends the Boat to transport the Negroes, in order to set her on Fire; but
being in hast, and finding that unshackling them cost much Time and Labour,
they actually set her on Fire, with eighty of those poor Wretches on Board,
chained two and two together, under the miserable Choice of perishing by
Fire or Water: Those who jumped overboard from the Flames, were seized by
Sharks, a voracious Fish, in Plenty in this Road, and, in their Sight, tore
Limb from Limb alive. A Cruelty unparalell'd! And for which had every
Individual been hanged, few I imagine would think that Justice had been
rigorous.

The Pyrates, indeed, were obliged to dispatch their Business here in hast,
because they had intercepted a Letter from General _Phips_ to Mr.
_Baldwin_, the Royal _African_ Company's Agent at _Whydah_, (giving an
Account, that _Roberts_ had been seen to Windward of Cape _Three Points_,)
that he might the better guard against the Damages to the Company's Ships,
if he should arrive at that Road before the _Swallow_ Man of War, which he
assured him, (at the Time of that Letter,) was pursuing them to that Place.
_Roberts_ call'd up his Company, and desired they would hear _Phip_'s
Speech, (for so he was pleased to call the Letter,) and notwithstanding
their vapouring, perswaded them of the Necessity of moving; for, says he,
such brave Fellows cannot be supposed to be frightned at this News, yet
that it were better to avoid dry Blows, which is the best that can be
expected, if overtaken.