Now, that they had two good Ships well mann'd, it may be supposed they were
in a Condition to undertake something bold: But their Government was
disturbed by Malecontents, and a Kingdom divided within it self cannot
stand; they had such a Number of new Men amongst them, that seem'd not so
violently enclined for the Game; that whatever the Captain proposed, it was
certainly carried against him, so that they came to no fix'd Resolution for
the undertaking any Enterprize; therefore there was nothing to be done, but
to break up the Company, which seemed to be the Inclination of the
Majority, but the Manner of doing so, concerned their common Safety; to
which Purpose various Means were proposed, at length it was concluded to
send home a Petition to his Majesty (there being then no Act of Indemnity
in Force) for a Pardon, and wait the Issue; at the same Time one _Jones_,
Boatswain of the _Good Fortune_, proposed a Place of safe Retreat, it being
an uninhabited Island near _Cuba_, which he had been used to in the late
War, when he went a privateering against the _Spaniards._

This being approved of, it was unanimously resolved on, and the
underwritten Petition drawn up and signed by the whole Company in the
Manner of what they call a _Round Robin_, that is, the Names were writ in a
Circle, to avoid all Appearance of Pre-eminence, and least any Person
should be mark'd out by the Government, as a principal Rogue among them.

_To his most sacred Majesty_ George, _by the Grace of God, of_
Great-Britain, France _and_ Ireland, _King, Defender of the Faith_, &c.

The humble PETITION of the Company, now belonging to the Ship
_Morning Star_, and Brigantine _Good Fortune_, lying under the ignominious
Name and Denomination of PYRATES.

Humbly sheweth,

T_HAT we your Majesty's most loyal Subjects, have, at sundry Times,
been taken by_ Bartholomew Roberts, _the then Captain of the abovesaid
Vessels and Company, together with another Ship, in which we left him; and
have been forced by him and his wicked Accomplices, to enter into, and
serve, in the said Company, as Pyrates, much contrary to our Wills and
Inclinations: And we your loyal Subjects utterly abhoring and detesting
that impious way of Living, did, with an unanimous Consent, and contrary to
the Knowledge of the said_ Roberts, _or his Accomplices, on, or about the_
18_th Day of_ April 1721, _leave, and ran away with the aforesaid Ship_
Morning Star, _and Brigantine_ Good Fortune, _with no other Intent and
Meaning than the Hopes of obtaining your Majesty's most gracious Pardon.
And, that we your Majesty's most loyal Subjects, may with more Safety
return to our native Country, and serve the Nation, unto which we belong,
in our respective Capacities, without Fear of being prosecuted by the
Injured, whose Estates have suffered by the said_ Roberts _and his
Accomplices, during our forcible Detainment, by the said Company: We most
humbly implore your Majesty's most royal Assent, to this our humble
Petition._

And your Petitioners shall ever pray.

This Petition was sent home by a Merchant Ship bound to _England_, from
_Jamaica_, who promised to speak with the Petitioners, in their Return,
about 20 Leagues to Windward of that Island, and let them know what Success
their Petition met with. When this was done, the Pyrates retires to the
Island before proposed, with the Ship and Brigantine.