When _Roberts_ was gone, as tho' he had been the Life and Soul of the Gang,
their Spirits sunk; many deserted their Quarters, and all stupidly
neglected any Means for Defence, or Escape; and their Main-mast soon after
being shot by the Board, they had no Way left, but to surrender and call
for Quarters. The _Swallow_ kept aloof, while her Boat passed, and repassed
for the Prisoners; because they understood they were under an Oath to blow
up; and some of the Desperadoes shewed a Willingness that Way, Matches
being lighted, and Scuffles happening between those who would, and those
who opposed it: But I cannot easily account for this Humour, which can be
term'd no more than a false Courage, since any of them had Power to destroy
his own Life, either by Pistol, or Drowning, without involving others in
the same Fate, who are in no Temper of Mind for it: And at best, it had
been only dying, for fear of Death.

She had 40 Guns, and 157 Men, 45 whereof were Negroes; three only were
killed in the Action, without any Loss to the _Swallow._ There was found
upwards of 2000 _l._ in Gold-Dust in her. The Flag could not be got easily
from under the fallen Mast, and was therefore recover'd by the _Swallow_;
it had the Figure of a Skeleton in it, and a Man pourtray'd with a flaming
Sword in his Hand, intimating a Defyance of Death it self.

The _Swallow_ returned back into Cape _Lopez_ Bay, and found the little
_Ranger_, whom the Pyrates had deserted in hast, for the better Defence of
the Ship: She had been plunder'd, according to what I could learn, of 2000
l. in Gold-Dust, (the Shares of those Pyrates who belonged to her;) and
Captain _Hill_, in the _Neptune_, not unjustly suspected, for he would not
wait the Man of War's returning into the Bay again, but sail'd away
immediately, making no Scruple afterwards to own the Seizure of other Goods
out of her, and surrender'd, as a Confirmation of all, 50 Ounces at
_Barbadoes_, for which, see the Article at the End of this Book.

_All Persons who after the_ 29_th of_ Septem. 1690, &c.