_Low_ had heard by one of the above mentioned Ships, that two small Gallies
were expected every Day at the _Western Islands, viz._ the _Greyhound_,
Captain _Glass_, and the _Joliff_, Captain _Aram_; the former of which was
designed to be fitted for the pyratical Trade to _Brasil_, if Things had
happened to their Minds. They mann'd the Sloop, and sent her in Quest of
one or both of these Ships to the _Western Islands_ aforesaid, whilst they
carreen'd their Ship _Rose_, at one of the _Cape de Verds_: But now Fortune
that had hitherto been so propitious to them, left her Minions, and baffled
for the present all their Hopes, for the Sloop missing of their Prey, was
reduced to great Necessities for want of Provisions and Water, so that they
ventured to go ashore at St. _Michael_'s for a Supply, and pass for a
Trader; but they play'd their Parts so aukwardly, that they were suspected
by the Governor to be what they really were, and he was soon put out of
doubt by a Visit some _Portuguese_ made them, who happened unluckily to be
Passengers in Captain _Carter_'s Ship, when _Low_ took her, and knew the
Gentlemen's Faces very well; upon which the whole Crew was conducted into
the Castle, where they were provided for as long as they liv'd.

_Low_, in the mean Time, did not fare quite so ill, but had his intended
Voyage to _Brasil_ spoil'd, by the oversetting of his Ship, when she was
upon the Careen, whereby she was lost, so that he was reduc'd to his old
Scooner, which he called the _Fancy_, aboard of which they all went, to the
Number of 100, as vile Rogues as ever ended their Lives at _Tyburn._ They
proceeded now to the _West-Indies_, but before they had gotten far on their
Voyage, they attack'd a rich _Portuguese_ Ship, call'd the _Nostre Signiora
de Victoria_, bound home from _Bahia_, and after some Resistance, took her.
_Low_ tortur'd several of the Men, to make them declare where the Money,
(which he suppos'd they had on Board) lay, and extorted by that Means, a
Confession that the Captain had, during the Chace, hung out of the Cabin
Window, a Bag with 11,000 Moidores, which, assoon as he was taken, he cut
the Rope off, and let it drop into the Sea.

_Low_, upon hearing what a Prize had escap'd him, rav'd like a Fury, swore
a thousand Oaths, and ordered the Captain's Lips to be cut off, which he
broil'd before his Face, and afterwards murthered him and all the Crew,
being thirty two Persons.

After this bloody Action, they continued their Course, till they came to
the Northward of all the Islands, and there cruiz'd for about a Month, in
which Time they made Prizes of the following Vessels, _viz._ a Snow from
_New-York_ to _Curacoa, Robert Leonard_ Master; a Sloop from the Bay, bound
to _New-York, Craig_ Master; a Snow from _London_ and _Jamaica_, bound to
_New-York_; and the _Stanhope_ Pink, _Andrew Delbridge_ Master, from
_Jamaica_ to _Boston_; which last they burnt, because of _Low_'s
irreconcileable Aversion to _New-England_ Men.