In a few Days they took a Snow with a few Hands, and _Fern_, the Carpenter,
one _William Phillips, Wood_ and _Taylor_, went aboard to take Possession
of her. _Fern_, not forgetting the Affront of having _Archer_ preferr'd
before him, resolv'd to go off with the Prize, and brought the rest into
the same Measures; however _Phillips_, the Captain, keeping a good
Look-out, perceiv'd their Design, and gave them Chace, who coming up with
the Vessel, a Skirmish ensu'd, wherein _Wood_ was kill'd and _Taylor_
wounded in his Leg; upon which the other two surrender'd. There was no
Surgeon aboard, and therefore it was advis'd, upon a learned Consultation,
that _Phillips_'s Leg should be cut off; but who should perform the
Operation was the Dispute; at length the Carpenter was appointed, as the
most proper Man: Upon which, he fetch'd up the biggest Saw, and taking the
Limb under his Arm, fell to Work, and separated it from the Body of the
Patient, in as little Time as he could have cut a Deal Board in two; after
that he heated his Ax red hot in the Fire, and cauteriz'd the Wound, but
not with so much Art as he perform'd the other Part, for he so burnt his
Flesh distant from the Place of Amputation, that it had like to have
mortify'd; however nature perform'd a Cure at last without any other
Assistance.

From _Tobago_ they stood away to the Northward and took a _Portugueze_
bound for _Brazil_, and two or three Sloops from _Jamaica_, in one of
which, _Fern_ the Carpenter, endeavouring to go off, was kill'd by
_Phillips_ the Captain, pursuant to their Articles; another had the same
Fate some Days after for the like Attempt. These Severities made it
dangerous for any to consult or project an Escape; the Terror of which made
several sign their Articles and set down quietly, waiting impatiently for
Redemption, which as yet they saw no great likelyhood of, and should they
have been taken before such Circumstances appear'd in their Actions or
Characters, as afterwards happen'd, to denote their Innocence, they might
have lost their Lives upon a Tryal at a Court of Admiralty; for pretty
strong Evidence is expected in their Favour, to ballance that of being
taken aboard a Vessel which is prov'd to be in actual Pyracy, and they
assisting therein.

Thus was many an honest Man's Case made most desperate by the consummate
Villany of a few hardned Wretches, who fear neither God or Devil, as this
_Phillips_ us'd often blasphemously to express himself.

On the 25th of _March_ they took two Ships from _Virginia_ for _London,
John Phillips_, the Pyrate Captain's Namesake, was Master of one, and
Captain _Robert Mortimer_, the other, a brisk young Fellow, that deserv'd a
better Fate than he met with. _Phillips_ the Pyrate staid on Board of
Captain _Mortimer_'s Ship, while they transported the Crew to the Sloop,
and the Boat returning along side, one of the Pyrates therein calls to
_Phillips_, and tells him, there was a Mutiny aboard their Vessel,
_Mortimer_ had two Men in his Ship, and the Pyrate Captain had two,
therefore thought it a good Opportunity to recover his Ship, and directly
took up a Handspike and struck _Phillips_ over the Head, giving him a
dangerous wound, but not knocking him down, he recovered and wounded
_Mortimer_ with his Sword; and the two Pyrates that were aboard coming in
to Captain _Phillips_'s Assistance, Captain _Mortimer_ was presently cut to
Pieces, while his own two Men stood by and did nothing.