They concluded now, that 'twas high Time to get into Harbour and refit, as
well as to get Refreshments themselves, and wait an Opportunity to dispose
of their Cargo; therefore 'twas resolved to make the best of their Way to
_Santa Crux_, a small Island in the Lattitude of 18, 30, N. ten Mile long,
and two broad, lying South-East of _Porto Rico_, belonging to the _French_
Settlements. Here they thought they might lye privately enough for some
Time, and fit themselves for further Mischief. They met with a Sloop by the
Way, which they took along with them, and in the Beginning of the Year
1716-17, they arrived at their Port, having a Ship of 20 Guns, a Sloop of
eight, and three Prizes, _viz._ another Ship of 20 Guns, a Sloop of four
Guns, and another Sloop last taken; with this little Fleet, they got into a
small Harbour, or Road, the N. W. Part of the Island, and warp'd up two
Creeks, which were made by a little Island lying within the Bay; (I am the
more particular now, because I shall take Leave of the Gentlemen, at this
Place.) They had here bare 16 Foot Water, at the deepest, and but 13 or 14,
at the shallowest, and nothing but Rocks and Sands without, which secured
them from Wind and Sea, and likewise from any considerable Force coming
against them.

When they had all got in, the first Thing they had to do, was to Guard
themselves in the best Manner they could; they made a Battery of four Guns
upon the Island, and another Battery of two Guns on the North Point of the
Road, and warp'd in one of the Sloops with eight Guns, at the Mouth of the
Channel, to hinder any Vessels from coming in; when this was done they went
to Work on their Ship, unrigging, and unloading, in order to Clean, where I
shall leave them a while, till I bring other Company to 'em.

In the Month of _November_, 1716, General _Hamilton_, Commander in chief of
all the _Leeward Carribee Islands_, sent a Sloop Express to Captain _Hume_,
at _Barbadoes_, Commander of his Majesty's Ship, _Scarborough_, of 30 Guns,
and 140 Men, to acquaint him, that two Pyrate Sloops of 12 Guns each,
molested the Colonies, having plundered several Vessels. The _Scarborough_
had bury'd twenty Men, and had near forty Sick, and therefore was but in
ill State to go to Sea: However, Captain _Hume_ left his sick Men behind,
and sailed to the other Islands, for a supply of Men, taking 20 Soldiers
from _Antegoa_; at _Nevis_, he took 10, and 10 at St. _Christophers_, and
then sailed to the Island of _Anguilla_, where he learned, that some Time
before, 2 such Sloops had been at _Spanish-Town_, otherwise called, one of
the _Virgin_ Islands: Accordingly, the next Day, the _Scarborough_ came to
_Spanish-Town_, but could hear no News of the Sloops, only, that they had
been there about _Christmas_, (it being then the 15th of _January_.)