In _January_ last, _Low_ took a Ship, called the _Squirrel_, Captain
_Stephenson_; but what became of him afterwards, I can't tell; we have had
no News concerning him come to _England_, since this I have now mentioned;
but I have heard that he talk'd of going to _Brazil_; and if so, it is
likely we may too soon hear of some Exploit or other; tho' the best
Information we could receive, would be, that he and all his Crew were at
the Bottom of the Sea.

CHAP. XIV. OF Capt. _JOHN EVANS_, And his CREW.

J_OHN Evans_ was a _Welch_ Man, had been formerly Master of a Sloop
belonging to _Nevis_, but losing his Employ there, he sailed for some Time
out of _Jamaica_ as Mate, till happening in Company of three or four of his
Comrades, and Wages not being so good as formerly, and Births scarce,
because of the great Number of Seamen; they agreed to go abroad in search
of Adventures. They sailed, or rather rowed out of _Port Royal_ in
_Jamaica_, the latter End of _September_ 1722, in a Canoa; and coming on
the North-Side of the Island, went ashore in the Night, broke open a House
or two, and robb'd them of some Money, and every Thing else they could find
that was portable, and brought the Booty on Board the Canoa.

This was very well for the first Time, but this kind of Robbery did not
please so well, they wanted to get out to Sea, but having no Vessel but
their Canoa, they were prevented in their laudable Design; however, they
kept a good look out, and traversed the Island, in Expectation that
Providence would send some unfortunate Vessel as a Sacrifice, and in a few
Days their Wishes were accomplished; for at _Duns Hole_, they found a small
Sloop at an Anchor, belonging to _Bermudas_: They made bold and went
aboard, and _Evans_ informed the Folks that belonged to her, that he was
Captain of the Vessel, which was a Piece of News they knew not before.
After they had put their Affairs in a proper Disposition aboard, they went
ashore to a little Village for Refreshments, and lived jovially the
remaining Part of the Day, at a Tavern, spending three Pistols, and then
departed. The People of the House admired at the merry Guests they had got,
were mightily pleased, and wished for their Company at another Time, which
happened too soon for their Profit; for, in the middle of the Night, they
came ashore all Hands, rifled the House, and carried what they could aboard
their Sloop.

The next Day they weighed in the Sloop, aboard of which they mounted four
Guns, called her the _Scowerer_, and sailed to _Hispaniola_; on the North
Part of which Island they took a _Spanish_ Sloop, which proved an
extraordinary rich Prize, as it fell among so few Persons as this Company
consisted of, for they shared upwards of 150 _l._ a Man.

In Pursuance of the Game, and beating up for the Windward Islands, the
_Scowerer_ met with a Ship from _New-England_, bound to _Jamaica_, 120
Tons, called the _Dove_, Captain _Diamond_ Master, off _Porto Rico_: They
plundered her, and strengthened their own Company, by taking out the Mate,
and two or three other Men; they discharged the Prize, and run into one of
the Islands for fresh Water and Necessaries, and staid there some Time.