The second of _April_, they spy'd a Sail, and gave her Chace till 12
o'Clock at Night, the Pyrates believed her to be a _Spaniard_, when they
came close up to her, they discharged a Broadside, with small and great
Shot, which was follow'd by another, but the Ship making a lamentable Cry
for Quarters, they ceas'd firing, and ordered the Captain to come aboard,
which he did, but how disappointed the Rogues were when they found 'twas
their old Friend Captain _Hawkins_, whom they had sent away three Days
before, worth not one Penny? This was such a Baulk to them, that they
resolved he should suffer for falling in their Way, tho' it was so contrary
to his own Inclinations: About 15 of them surrounded the poor Man with
sharp Cutlashes, and fell upon him, whereby he was soon laid flat on the
Deck; at that Instant _Burridge_ flew amongst the thickest of the Villains,
and begg'd earnestly for his Life, upon whose Request 'twas granted. They
were now most of 'em drunk, as is usual at this Time of Night, so they
unanimously agreed to make a Bonfire of _Hawkins_'s Ship, which was
immediately done, and in half an Hour she was all of a Blaze.

After this, they wanted a little more Diversion, and so Captain _Hawkins_
was sent for down to the Cabin to Supper; what should the Provision be, but
a Dish of Candles, which he was forced to eat, having a naked Sword and a
Pistol held to his Breast all the while; when this was over, they buffeted
him about for some Time, and sent him forward amongst the other Prisoners,
who had been treated with the same Delicacies.

Two Days afterwards, they anchor'd at a little uninhabited Island, call'd
_Rattan_, near the Bay of _Honduras_, and put ashore Captain _Hawkins_, and
several other Men, (one of them his Passenger) who dy'd there of the
Hardships he underwent. They gave them Powder and Ball, and a Musquet, with
which they were to shift as they could, sailing away the next Day for other
Adventures.

Captain _Hawkins_, and his unfortunate Companions, staid 19 Days upon this
Island, supplying themselves with both Fish and Fowl, such as they were, at
which Time came two Men in a Canoe, that had been left upon another marroon
Island near _Benacca_, who carry'd the Company at several Times thither, it
being more convenient in having a good Well of fresh Water, and Plenty of
Fish, _&c._ Twelve Days afterwards they spy'd a Sloop off at Sea, which,
upon their making a great Smoke, stood in, and took them off; she was the
_Merriam_, Captain _Jones_, lately escaped out of the Bay of _Honduras_,
from being taken by the _Spaniards._

At an Island to the Westward, the Pyrates clean'd their Ship, and sail'd
towards the Island of St. _Christophers_, to wait for one Captain _Moor_,
who commanded the _Eagle_ Sloop, when she took _Lowther_'s upon the Careen,
at _Blanco_; _Spriggs_ resolved to put him to Death, whenever he took him,
for falling upon his Friend and Brother, but instead of _Moor_, he found a
_French_ Man of War from _Martinico_ upon the Coast, which _Spriggs_ not
thinking fit to contend with, run away with all the Sail he could make, the
_French_ Man crowded after him, and was very likely to speak with Mr.
_Spriggs_, when unfortunately his Main-Top-Mast came by the Board, which
obliged him to give over the Chace.