The Sloops trading up and down this River, being so frequently pillaged by
_Black-beard_, consulted with the Traders, and some of the best of the
Planters, what Course to take; they, saw plainly it would be in vain to
make any Application to the Governor of _North-Carolina_, to whom it
properly belonged to find some Redress; so that if they could not be
relieved from some other Quarter, _Black-beard_ would be like to reign with
Impunity, therefore, with as much Secrecy as possible, they sent a
Deputation to _Virginia_, to lay the Affair before the Governor of that
Colony, and to solicit an armed Force from the Men of War lying there, to
take or destroy this Pyrate.

This Governor consulted with the Captains of the two Men of War, _viz._ the
_Pearl_ and _Lime_, who had lain in St. _James_'s River, about ten Months.
It was agreed that the Governor should hire a couple of small Sloops, and
the Men of War, should Man them; this was accordingly done, and the Command
of them given to Mr. _Robert Maynard_, first Lieutenant of the _Pearl_, an
experienced Officer, and a Gentleman of great Bravery and Resolution, as
will appear by his gallant Behaviour in this Expedition. The Sloops were
well mann'd and furnished with Ammunition and small Arms, but had no Guns
mounted.

About the Time of their going out, the Governor called an Assembly, in
which it was resolved to publish a Proclamation, offering certain Rewards
to any Person or Persons, who, within a Year after that Time, should take
or destroy any Pyrate: The original Proclamation being in our Hands, is as
follows.

By his Majesty's Lieutenant Governor, and, Commander in Chief, of
the Colony and Dominion of _Virginia_,

A PROCLAMATION,

Publishing the Rewards given for apprehending, or killing, Pyrates.