But when we deal with facts believed to be purely subjective, we are
farther than ever from the goal.  We have not now the refuge of
distinguishing between the 'reality' and its appearances.  Facts of
thought being the only facts, differences of thought become the only
differences, and identities of thought the only identities there are.
Two thoughts that seem different are different to all eternity.  We can
no longer speak of heat and light being reconciled in any _tertium
quid_ like wave-motion.  For motion is motion, and light is light, and
heat heat forever, and their discontinuity is as absolute as their
existence.  Together with the other attributes and things we conceive,
they make up Plato's realm of immutable ideas.  Neither _per se_ calls
for the other, hatches it out, is its 'truth,' creates it, or has any
sort of inward community with it except that of being comparable {268}
in an ego and found more or less differing, or more or less resembling,
as the case may be.  The world of qualities is a world of things almost
wholly discontinuous _inter se_.  Each only says, "I am that I am," and
each says it on its own account and with absolute monotony.  The
continuities of which they _partake_, in Plato's phrase, the ego,
space, and time, are for most of them the only grounds of union they
possess.

It might seem as if in the mere 'partaking' there lay a contradiction
of the discontinuity.  If the white must partake of space, the heat of
time, and so forth,--do not whiteness and space, heat and time,
mutually call for or help to create each other?

Yes; a few such _Ã  priori_ couplings must be admitted.  They are the
axioms: no feeling except as occupying some space and time, or as a
moment in some ego; no motion but of something moved; no thought but of
an object; no time without a previous time,--and the like.  But they
are limited in number, and they obtain only between excessively broad
genera of concepts, and leave quite undetermined what the
specifications of those genera shall be.  What feeling shall fill
_this_ time, what substance execute _this_ motion, what qualities
combine in _this_ being, are as much unanswered questions as if the
metaphysical axioms never existed at all.

The existence of such syntheses as they are does then but slightly
mitigate the jolt, jolt, jolt we get when we pass over the facts of the
world.  Everywhere indeterminate variables, subject only to these few
vague enveloping laws, independent in all besides.--such seems the
truth.