What's mistake but a kind of take?
  What's nausea but a kind of -ausea?
  Sober, drunk, -_unk_, astonishment.
  Everything can become the subject of criticism--how
      criticise without something _to_ criticise?
  Agreement--disagreement!!
  Emotion--motion!!!
  Die away from, _from_, die away (without the _from_).
  Reconciliation of opposites; sober, drunk, all the same!
  Good and evil reconciled in a laugh!
  It escapes, it escapes!
  But----
  What escapes, WHAT escapes?
  Emphasis, EMphasis; there must be some emphasis in order
      for there to be a phasis.
  No verbiage can give it, because the verbiage is _other_.
  _In_coherent, coherent--same.
  And it fades!  And it's infinite!  AND it's infinite!
  If it was n't _going_, why should you hold on to it?
  Don't you see the difference, don't you see the identity?
  Constantly opposites united!
  The same me telling you to write and not to write!
  Extreme--extreme, extreme!  Within the _ex_tensity that
      'extreme' contains is contained the '_extreme_' of intensity.
  Something, and _other_ than that thing!
  Intoxication, and _otherness_ than intoxication.
  Every attempt at betterment,--every attempt at otherment,--is a----.
  It fades forever and forever as we move.

{297}

There _is_ a reconciliation!
  Reconciliation--_e_conciliation!
  By God, how that hurts!  By God, how it _does n't_ hurt!
      Reconciliation of two extremes.
  By George, nothing but _o_thing!
  That sounds like nonsense, but it is pure _on_sense!
  Thought deeper than speech----!
  Medical school; divinity school, _school_!  SCHOOL!  Oh my
      God, oh God, oh God!

The most coherent and articulate sentence which came was this:--

There are no differences but differences of degree between different
degrees of difference and no difference.

This phrase has the true Hegelian ring, being in fact a regular _sich
als sich auf sich selbst beziehende Negativität_.  And true Hegelians
will _überhaupt_ be able to read between the lines and feel, at any
rate, what _possible_ ecstasies of cognitive emotion might have bathed
these tattered fragments of thought when they were alive.  But for the
assurance of a certain amount of respect from them, I should hardly
have ventured to print what must be such caviare to the general.

But now comes the reverse of the medal.  What is the principle of unity
in all this monotonous rain of instances?  Although I did not see it at
first, I soon found that it was in each case nothing but the abstract
_genus_ of which the conflicting terms were opposite species.  In other
words, although the flood of ontologic _emotion_ was Hegelian through
and through, the _ground_ for it was nothing but the world-old
principle that things are the same only so far and no farther than they
_are_ the same, or partake of a common nature,--the principle that
Hegel most tramples under foot.  At the same time the rapture of
beholding a process that was infinite, changed (as the nature of the
infinitude was realized by the mind) into the sense of a dreadful and
ineluctable fate, with whose magnitude every finite effort is
incommensurable and in the light of which whatever happens is
indifferent.  This instantaneous revulsion of mood from rapture to
horror is, perhaps, the strongest emotion I have ever experienced.  I
got it repeatedly when the inhalation was continued long enough to
produce incipient nausea; and I cannot but regard it as the normal and
inevitable outcome of the {298} intoxication, if sufficiently
prolonged.  A pessimistic fatalism, depth within depth of impotence and
indifference, reason and silliness united, not in a higher synthesis,
but in the fact that whichever you choose it is all one,--this is the
upshot of a revelation that began so rosy bright.