I sincerely believe that the latter course is the only one we can
follow as reflective men.  Objective evidence and certitude are
doubtless very fine ideals to play with, but where on this moonlit and
dream-visited planet are they found?  I am, therefore, myself a
complete empiricist so far as my theory of human knowledge goes.  I
live, to be sure, by the practical faith that we must go on
experiencing and thinking over our experience, for only thus can our
opinions grow more true; but to hold any one of them--I absolutely do
not care which--as if it never could be reinterpretable or corrigible,
I believe to be a tremendously mistaken attitude, and I think that the
whole history of philosophy will bear me out.  There is but one
indefectibly certain truth, and that is the truth that pyrrhonistic
scepticism itself leaves {15} standing,--the truth that the present
phenomenon of consciousness exists.  That, however, is the bare
starting-point of knowledge, the mere admission of a stuff to be
philosophized about.  The various philosophies are but so many attempts
at expressing what this stuff really is.  And if we repair to our
libraries what disagreement do we discover!  Where is a certainly true
answer found?  Apart from abstract propositions of comparison (such as
two and two are the same as four), propositions which tell us nothing
by themselves about concrete reality, we find no proposition ever
regarded by any one as evidently certain that has not either been
called a falsehood, or at least had its truth sincerely questioned by
some one else.  The transcending of the axioms of geometry, not in play
but in earnest, by certain of our contemporaries (as ZÃ¶llner and
Charles H. Hinton), and the rejection of the whole Aristotelian logic
by the Hegelians, are striking instances in point.