But for those who deem Hegel's heroic effort to {73} have failed,
nought remains but to confess that when all things have been unified to
the supreme degree, the notion of a possible other than the actual may
still haunt our imagination and prey upon our system.  The bottom of
being is left logically opaque to us, as something which we simply come
upon and find, and about which (if we wish to act) we should pause and
wonder as little as possible.  The philosopher's logical tranquillity
is thus in essence no other than the boor's.  They differ only as to
the point at which each refuses to let further considerations upset the
absoluteness of the data he assumes.  The boor does so immediately, and
is liable at any moment to the ravages of many kinds of doubt.  The
philosopher does not do so till unity has been reached, and is
warranted against the inroads of those considerations, but only
practically, not essentially, secure from the blighting breath of the
ultimate Why?  If he cannot exorcise this question, he must ignore or
blink it, and, assuming the data of his system as something given, and
the gift as ultimate, simply proceed to a life of contemplation or of
action based on it.  There is no doubt that this acting on an opaque
necessity is accompanied by a certain pleasure.  See the reverence of
Carlyle for brute fact: "There is an infinite significance in fact."
"Necessity," says DÃ¼hring, and he means not rational but given
necessity, "is the last and highest point that we can reach....  It is
not only the interest of ultimate and definitive knowledge, but also
that of the feelings, to find a last repose and an ideal equilibrium in
an uttermost datum which can simply not be other than it is."

Such is the attitude of ordinary men in their theism, God's fiat being
in physics and morals such an {74} uttermost datum.  Such also is the
attitude of all hard-minded analysts and _Verstandesmenschen_.  Lotze,
Renouvier, and Hodgson promptly say that of experience as a whole no
account can be given, but neither seek to soften the abruptness of the
confession nor to reconcile us with our impotence.

But mediating attempts may be made by more mystical minds.  The peace
of rationality may be sought through ecstasy when logic fails.  To
religious persons of every shade of doctrine moments come when the
world, as it is, seems so divinely orderly, and the acceptance of it by
the heart so rapturously complete, that intellectual questions vanish;
nay, the intellect itself is hushed to sleep,--as Wordsworth says,
"thought is not; in enjoyment it expires."  Ontological emotion so
fills the soul that ontological speculation can no longer overlap it
and put her girdle of interrogation-marks round existence.  Even the
least religious of men must have felt with Walt Whitman, when loafing
on the grass on some transparent summer morning, that "swiftly arose
and spread round him the peace and knowledge that pass all the argument
of the earth."  At such moments of energetic living we feel as if there
were something diseased and contemptible, yea vile, in theoretic
grubbing and brooding.  In the eye of healthy sense the philosopher is
at best a learned fool.