The essay 'On some Hegelisms' doubtless needs an apology for the
superficiality with which it treats a serious subject.  It was written
as a squib, to be read in a college-seminary in Hegel's logic, several
of whose members, mature men, were devout champions of the dialectical
method.  My blows therefore were aimed almost entirely at that.  I
reprint the paper here (albeit with some misgivings), partly because I
believe the dialectical method to be wholly abominable when worked by
concepts alone, and partly because the essay casts some positive light
on the pluralist-empiricist point of view.

{xiv}

The paper on Psychical Research is added to the volume for convenience
and utility.  Attracted to this study some years ago by my love of
sportsmanlike fair play in science, I have seen enough to convince me
of its great importance, and I wish to gain for it what interest I can.
The American Branch of the Society is in need of more support, and if
my article draws some new associates thereto, it will have served its
turn.

Apology is also needed for the repetition of the same passage in two
essays (pp. 59-61 and 96-7, 100-1).  My excuse is that one cannot
always express the same thought in two ways that seem equally forcible,
so one has to copy one's former words.

The Crillon-quotation on page 62 is due to Mr. W. M. Salter (who
employed it in a similar manner in the 'Index' for August 24, 1882),
and the dream-metaphor on p. 174 is a reminiscence from some novel of
George Sand's--I forget which--read by me thirty years ago.

Finally, the revision of the essays has consisted almost entirely in
excisions.  Probably less than a page and a half in all of new matter
has been added.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY,
  CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS,
    December, 1896.

[1] B. P. Blood: The Flaw in Supremacy: Published by the Author,
Amsterdam, N. Y., 1893.

{x}

CONTENTS.

PAGE

THE WILL TO BELIEVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1

Hypotheses and options, 1.  Pascal's wager, 5.  Clifford's
  veto, 8.  Psychological causes of belief, 9.  Thesis of the
  Essay, 11.  Empiricism and absolutism, 12.  Objective certitude
  and its unattainability, 13. Two different sorts of risks in
  believing, 17.  Some risk unavoidable, 19.  Faith may bring
  forth its own verification, 22.  Logical conditions of religious
  belief, 25.

IS LIFE WORTH LIVING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32

Temperamental Optimism and Pessimism, 33.  How reconcile
  with life one bent on suicide? 38.  Religious melancholy and its
  cure, 39.  Decay of Natural Theology, 43.  Instinctive antidotes
  to pessimism, 46.  Religion involves belief in an unseen
  extension of the world, 51.  Scientific positivism, 52.  Doubt
  actuates conduct as much as belief does, 54.  To deny certain
  faiths is logically absurd, for they make their objects true, 56.
  Conclusion, 6l.

THE SENTIMENT OF RATIONALITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63

Rationality means fluent thinking, 63.  Simplification, 65.
  Clearness, 66.  Their antagonism, 66.  Inadequacy of the
  abstract, 68.  The thought of nonentity, 71.  Mysticism, 74.  Pure
  theory cannot banish wonder, 75.  The passage to practice may
  restore the feeling of rationality, 75.  Familiarity and
  expectancy, 76.  'Substance,' 80.  A rational world must appear

{xvi}